I;Ingredients:
D;remaining garlic oil.
I;11 large egg yolks
I;15 cashew nuts (made into a paste using water)
I;2 tablespoons steak sauce
I;3 cups water
D;soup, chicken soup and rice. Pour into greased 13 x 9 x 2 inch dish.
D;Tina
I;For the filling and frosting:
I;1 bunch artichoke hearts, quartered ( I like the ones marinated in the
D;together to form a rough dough ball. Add the remaining butter and mix
I;1 medium zucchini chopped
D;layer in pan.
I;1 lb. Hamburger meat (cooked)
D;green onions. Stir well. Sprinkled reserved almonds
I;1 cup Cream Cheese (softened)
I;1 cup quick-cooking (not instant) Irish oatmeal, such as McCann's
I;2 cups water
D;Pat out the dough onto a baking sheet for 1 large pizza or divide
I;2 large tomatoes, chopped, or one 14-1/2-oz can diced tomatoes
D;the fruit and coriander sprigs.
D;Heat grill to medium-high (400 to 450 F). Place sheet of foil with
I;6 T. rice vinegar
D;taste and serve.
D;of melted chocolate down center of each waxed paper strip. Using metal
D;1/2 Fat; 1 Other Carbohydrates.
I;Meatball Ingredients:
I;about 1/4 cup of milk
D;1. Remove crusts from bread. Place bread slices on a baking sheet.
I;teaspoon sugar
I;1 8 ounce package lasagna noodles
D;the bread basket at restaurants.
D;Muffuletta Sandwich Tampa Tribune
D;45 minutes till brown on top Put on rack to cool before adding syrup
D;Source: Tabasco
I;Freshly ground nutmeg
I;1/2  small         green bell pepper -- chopped
I;1 package (18.5 ounces) yellow cake mix
I;For the Creole Seasoning
I;Dried parsley flakes
I;2 pkgs. (12 oz. each) bulk seasoned pork sausage
D;Exchange Value: 2 Medium-Fat Meat Exchanges + 2 Bread Exchanges + 1 Vegetable
I;Hot boiled rice.
I;Garlic powder
I;1/2 gal. vanilla ice cream, softened (see below for home made vanilla ice
I;Water
D;prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.) Release pan sides from cake;
D;mixer. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Combine 
I;For Chocolate Bands:
D;Serves 4
I;1 tablespoon finely ground roasted coffee beans
D;over them.
D;5 minutes.
D;You can get powdered buttermilk in some stores, or over the internet.
D;medium-low heat until smooth and thick but still pourable, adding more
I;2 1/2 cups sifted powdered sugar
I;1/2 teaspoon kasuri  methi (dried fenugreek leaves)
I;2 teaspoons water (about)
D;1. Simmer ingredients in saucepan for about 10 minutes.
I;1 10 ounce can refrigerated
D;to 6.
I;2 10-ounce packages frozen broccoli, thawed and drained
I;3 1/2 cups fat-free, less-sodium chicken or vegetable broth
D;blend. Add melted chocolate, vanilla, and salt; beat until smooth. Beat
D;Place rice, tomatoes, green pepper, paprika,
I;1/2 red bell pepper cut into thin
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Season the pork tenderloin with the
D;Combine chopped chocolate and vegetable oil in large metal bowl. Place
I;2 tablespoons water
I;1 cup all purpose flour
D;Put apricots in saucepan and cover with water
D;Serve.
D;the squash wedges. Using your hands, rub all the mix onto the pieces of
D;powder
I;Bierock Filling:
D;to lukewarm, and pour over cake.
I;Chives -- chopped
D;Squash Rolls St. Pete Tomes
D;1 egg 1 teaspoon water Combine flour, butter and cream cheese in large
D;a food processor fitted with a steel blade. Process about 10 seconds, or
I;Water, for mixing
D;Source unknown
D;Omanhene Orange Cheesecake
D;process. At a low speed, add eggs, one at time, then yolk, beating
D;over medium-high heat and served alongside the cooked tenderloins).
D;onion, butter, egg and 1 cup flour mixture. Beat 2 minutes
D;burn the nuts.  The nuts are done when they are light brown and glazed 
I;1/4 cup apricot jam
I;ripe olives ; sliced
D;until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate,
D;into the prepared pan, cover, and chill overnight.
I;2 peaches
I;Sometimes I add smoked sausage cut into rings.
I;whipped cream for garnish (optional)
I;1/4 cup hot chili paste (recommended: Sriracha Hot Chili Paste)
D;Frenchman.
I;1 14 1/2-ounce can crushed tomatoes with added puree
D;Meanwhile, combine 1-1/2 cups apple juice, 1/2 cup water, cornstarch
D;burned, about 10 minutes.
I;3 tablespoons Flour
D;small bowl. Spreadmixture evenly over top of cake. Return to oven and
D;Bake at 375 F for 15 minutes.
D;well blended. Add flour to butter mixture; blend until smooth. Stir in small
I;salt & pepper--to taste
D;course.
D;hours on LOW.
I;Steak and Guinness Pie
D;Our version of a traditional recipe.
I;Green onions
D;good too.
D;Missy Johnson of Fairway, Kansas, writes: "My husband and i had a
D;And green onions.
D;Bring cream to simmer in medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add
I;pound boiled ham, cut into 1-inch cubes
I;1/2 pound american cheese, sliced into strips (or your favorite cheese)
I;or turkey
I;4 cups mixed baby lettuces
D;cheesecakes, etc. It is a good alternative to any of the following:
I;1/2 t. salt
I;1 t chicken bouillon granules
I;1-1/2 cups whole-bran cereal (not bran flakes)
I;1 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves - cut into thin strips
D;Yield: about 2 dozen
D;Description - Also known as the Vegetable Pear and the Marlinton, this
I;1/4 teaspoon cornstarch
D;soup with grated onion, peas (use liquid from peas to thin the soup) and
I;~~  Garlic Bread  ~~
I;1/4 tsp pepper
D;Blueberry Cheese Coffeecake
D;shrimp. Serves 12.
I;1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
D;Recipe by: Cindy Revelle Combine Cheddar cheese,
I;1 1/2  cups          pastina or other small pasta
D;gelatin is completely dissolved. Set custard aside.
I;4 cup pressed apple cider (not pasteurized apple juice)
I;1/2 ts Black Pepper, ground
D;9-inch glass pie plate.
D;the corner of the bag. Squeezing the bag gently, fill the reserved whites
D;vanilla and salt in large bowl of electric mixer; blend until smooth. Add
I;1 teaspoon baking soda
D;Requested: Bananas with strawberry sauce?
I;Stuffing
I;14 1/2 ounces canned zesty diced tomatoes -- undrained
D;minutes or until hot. Let stand 10 minutes before
D;into ungreased 1-1/2 quart souffle dish. Bake in slow
D;oregano
D;Vegetable Meat Casserole
I;1 cup Old El Paso Salsa
I;fresh ground pepper
I;1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
I;2 medium Potatoes, diced and boiled
I;14 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 box sugar-free instand chocolate
D;simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water) and whisk
I;1 broiler-fryer chicken -- cut up
D;lengthwise with a sheet of plastic wrap, leaving a 2-inch overhang on
D;Combine Port, figs and cloves in heavy medium saucepan and bring to
D;ready to use.
I;2 1/2 cups sugar
D;For the cake:
D;or until browned.
I;2 tomatoes, peeled, seeded and coarsely chopped
I;1/4 cup Granulated sugar
D;salt and pepper in mixing bowl. Mix well with a fork and form into
I;PRALI NE TOPPING
I;1/4 teaspoon liquid smoke
D;8
D;a medium saucepan; add shallots and cook 3 minutes. Stir in milk,
I;Confectioners' sugar, for serving
D;Chocolate Chip Kiss Cookies
I;4-oz. Cream Cheese, softened
D;a week. It is delicious!
D;wine and bay leaves. Boil 10 minutes to blend flavors.
I;75g/3oz ready-to-eat dried apricots, finely chopped
I;1 package gyoza skins (or 2 packs)
D;Comment:
D;In large saucepan or Dutch oven, place chicken. Add water,
D;tender, 20 to 25 minutes.
D;to the broiler. Heat just until cheese melts.
D;9 inch round cake pans. Combine cake mix, pumpkin, 1/4 cup melted butter,
D;Categories: beverages
I;1 8 ounce can tomato sauce
D;22% vit. A, 3% vit. C , 17% folate.
D;Per Serving: about 394 cal, 6g pro, 20 g total fat (12 g sat. fat), 48g
D;a boil.  Add thawed vegetables and cook over medium heat until vegetables
D;something I.m not.
D;SandyU.
I;1 1/2 c. beef broth (opt.)
I;a little salt
D;Kreplach
D;Makes 2 cups.
D;The day before you plan to cook the meat; prepare the barbecue sauce. Place
D;greased (can use no stick cooking spray) baking sheet. Bake at 350
I;13 1/2 oz can leaf spinach, well drained
I;2        tablespoons  no salt added tomato paste
D;On July 11th "Cindy4sure@msn.com" requested a recipe to make Bailey's
D;until
D;Place pot in 325 F oven and bake until brisket is heated through,
D;7 g protein, 22% vitamin A, 38% vitamin C, 17% calcium, 13% iron.
D;bowl until blended. Add egg and vanilla; beat until thick, about 3
I;1 1/2 cups shredded cheddar cheese, divided
D;CRUMB TOPPING: In small bowl, combine flour, brown and granulated sugars
I;1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
D;blended. Beat in eggs and then sour cream until the mixture is creamy
D;marshmallows are melted. Pour over cookie base;
D;golden brown.
I;2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, twice-around-the-pan
I;1 Can Cream Of Celery Soup
I;Chopped parsley (for garnish)
D;Blood Orange Cheesecake
I;1 teaspoon each steak sauce, Worcestershire sauce and ketchup
I;Grated rind from 1 large orange
I;Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
I;2 bayleaves
I;1/4 cup vegetable oil
I;1/2 teaspoon bottled hot pepper sauce
I;1 tb Olive oil
D;Lightly cover bottom of Dutch oven pan or pot with Canola oil.  Place
I;100 g / 4oz raisins
I;1 onion
I;3bay leaves -- very finely crumbled
I;12 Stella D'oro Almond Toast cookies
D;and green onions over top. Cover and cook on Low 7 to
D;chicken to broth and refrigerate overnight. The next day, remove all of
D;for 1 minute
I;Cayenne pepper
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Lightly spoon the flour into dry measuring
D;mixture in Step 5.
I;3 Medium potatoes -- peel/dice
D;throughout the mixture. If the crumbs will not hold together, add the
D;Add the vegetables and salt, and continue to simmer for another 30
I;For Filling:
I;1/2 tsp. caraway seeds (in strainer or cheesecloth)
D;a cake keeper or wrapped well in plastic wrap, at cool room
I;dash salt and pepper..
I;3 eggs
I;1/2 t. pepper
I;1 8-oz can crushed, unsweetened pineapple, drained
I;Chocolate Glaze:
D;6 oval loaves, each about 3/4-inch thick. Grill the meatloaves, turning
D;chocolate, then pistachios. Freeze all ice cream truffles until firm,
D;into small pieces and add to mixture. Simmer until meet balls are
I;combined with
D;and run a thin knife around the inside of the pan. Carefully remove
D;In a separate frying pan, melt butter and saute sliced onions.
I;Parsley, chopped
D;roasted tenderloin.
D;Serves 12 to 14.
D;raspberry jam. Slice to serve.
I;Raspberry Sauce or Hot Chocolate Sauce (see recipes below)
I;same 2 cans of water
I;2 teaspoons salt
D;with sugar/cinnamon mixture cover with cooked drained apple slices sauteed
I;1/2 pound fresh sea bass fillets, sliced into 1/2-inch slices
D;2 tablespoons brandy in a bowl.
I;1 1/2 Tbsp. fresh lemon juice
D;warm platter; keep warm. Strain juices. Pour juices from
I;1 teaspoon ginger, crushed and chopped
I;2 (8-14 lb) turkeys
D;and brown sugar.
I;almonds optional
I;1 loaf sliced sandwich bread
I;1 cup whole cranberries (pre-cook according to directions for cranberry
D;desired as well.
I;1 T Vegetable Oil
I;sea salt
D;and serve.
I;cayenne pepper, to taste
D;Heat oil in frying pan to medium-high, about 350 F. Combine garlic,
I;Butter Flavor Cooking Spray
D;water by teaspoonfuls if necessary. Cool.
D;soda, baking powder, and salt. In another large bowl with an electric
D;cream mixture.)
D;racks; remove parchment and cool completely.
D;wrapped well in plastic wrap, at room temperature.
I;6 - 8 pork loin chops about 2 inches thick
I;1 package (7 ounces) chopped mixed dried fruit (1 1/4 cups)
D;0 Other Carbohydrates
D;In a stockpot over medium high heat, heat the oil. Add
D;meat is cooked threw and the internal temperature on a instant read
D;Categories : Chicken Soups
D;Bake 10 minutes, or until cheese is melted.
I;Kosher salt and pepper, to taste
I;1 tablespoon water
D;CHEESE FILLING: In bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until light and
D;on platter. Degrease pan juices. Spoon pan juices over meat. Arrange
I;water 30 minutes
I;1/2 chopped green bell pepper
I;cinnamon
D;on wire rack.
I;2 pounds dried Swedish brown beans (I'm not really sure what these  are)
D;9 inch baking pan. Core and cut the apples into thin wedges, leaving the
I;4 bottled red malagueta peppers** or 1- to 2-inch fresh red Thai chiles
D;bag. Bake for 45 to 50 minutes.
D;golden.
I;2 cups half-and-half
I;1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese
D;all unfrozen and separated. Put the meatballs in with the spinach
D;Pour sauce over pasta, tossing to coat.
I;Pasta Ingredients:
D;flour, soda, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl; add to creamed mixture, 
D;Bonnie Brooks
D;spoon salad on top.
I;Toasted pecan halves (optional)
D;dried before cooking; older purple-top turnips will need to be peeled. Cut
I;Soup Ingredients:
D;Bake 30 minutes or until hot and bubbly. Makes 8 servings.
D;25 minutes or until crisp.
I;Optional:  A handful of muscat    raisins, tart berries:  black,razz.,
I;1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted European-style butter, room temperature
D;about two minutes.
I;Cherries
I;1/2 cup finely chopped onion
D;to 8 minutes.
D;Assembly:
I;6                     eggs
D;Sprinkle raspberries over ice cream. Pour about 3 tablespoons warm
I;1/2 cup fresh bread crumbs, plus 1/4 cup toasted
D;Mexicali Pork Chops
D;butter. Cool slightly. Stir in cream. Serve warm. (Can be made 1 week
D;Mix together juice and ginger ale. Scoop sherbert and add to punch. Add
D;until thick. Cool. In large bowl combine chopped
I;1 Candied Blood Orange Slice
D;minutes
I;1 cup beef broth (or 1 cup water mixed with 1/2 teaspoon beef base)
I;Two large egg whites
I;1/4 lb. slab bacon, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
D;fat), 445 mg chol, 1,241 mg sod
D;honey, orange zest and salt. Pour dressing over hot cooked rice and mix
D;with unflavored yogurt.
D;10 minutes.  Do not brown.  Cool 5 minutes.  Place almonds in food
I;4 med. Size potatoes (diced)
I;1L milk
D;crust; place in freezer for 6 hours or overnight.
D;blend. Place croissant pieces in 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish; add apricots
I;1/4 tsp. sage
I;1/4 pound cervelat sausage,sliced (I used Kielbasa or spanish sausage or
D;powdered sugar. Top with crystallized ginger. Serve cakes with
I;1  vanilla pod
D;foil, and chill overnight.
D;This recipe was in a Campus Crusade for Christ fundraiser cookbook. If you
I;1/2 Teaspoon pepper
D;bite-size balls. Drop the balls into the broth. When they rise to
D;Serves 6.
D;. Rose water, which adds a flowery essence to many Indian desserts,
D;In a 4-quart saucepan, combine pineapple juice, brown sugar,
I;1 tablespoon snipped parsley
D;-Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Bake until light brown, about 15 to 20 minutes
D;"Mom often made this hearty main-dish salad for my three brothers and
I;3 cups whole milk
I;1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
I;1 pound baby lima beans
I;3 Tbsp Sliced green onions or fresh cilantro, whichever
D;Easy Orange Parfaits
D;20 4 ounce portions.
D;then transfer batter to a bowl and chill until firm, about 1 hour.
I;2 tablespoons unsalted butter
D;refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 2 hours before
D;Top with paprika.
D;g Polyunsaturated Fat 7 g Monounsaturated Fat 5 g Carbohydrates 1.4 g
I;5 drops of Tabasco sauce
D;Fat; 1 Other Carbohydrates.
I;2 T. olive oil
D;boil for 1 minute or until liquid is
D;stand until soft, about 10 minutes. In a small saucepan, bring sugar
I;Shredded cheddar cheese (optional)
D;Source: AllRecipes
D;recipe.  Use a fruity extra virgin olive oil.  Enjoy with an Oloroso style
D;Broccoli & Avocado Salad
D;cookie into melted chocolate, then finely-chopped
D;a preheated 375 degree oven for about 30 minutes. Let cool 8 or 10 minutes
I;seasoning
I;Shrimp Sauce:
D;together eggs, sugar, and a pinch of salt in a bowl, then add hot milk
I;1/4 cup minced dill pickle/gherkins/capers
I;2 cups corn (fresh or frozen), thawed
I;1 1/2 cups brewed coffee
I;1/2 lb Kalamata or Gacta olives, pitted and sliced or coarsley chopped
D;cool for 5 minutes; then tip quiches out of pans. Serve warm or at room
D;Preparation Time: 45 minutes
D;Tomato Cucumber Salad
I;Pecan Pralines:
D;Easy Brickle Pie
D;and mix well. Season generously with salt, and then add pepper to
D;fold in the eggs and then the banana/cerealmixture. Beat well. Stir in the
D;Arrange mandarin oranges around edge.
I;1/4 c. butter or margarine
D;each roll in eight 1 1/2-inch slices.
D;Orange Marmalade Ice Cream Sandwiches With Almond Florentines
I;1/2 cup fresh orange juice
I;Salt and pepper to taste (optional)
I;2 large onions chopped
D;Source Unknown
I;1 1/2 teaspoons cumin seeds
D;40 minutes 30 mins prep divide cauliflour into florets and cook for 10
D;Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 F. Butter
D;a food processor a small amount at a time until pureed, adding dill to
I;2 Tbsp. Olive oil.
I;3 fennel bulbs (sometimes called anise), sliced thin (about 1/2 cups),
D;Yield: 4 servings
D;Note: I added a bit of fresh nutmeg to mine. This is basically a crustless onion
I;Powdered sugar for dusting
D;and Gruyere.
I;lettuce
D;Preheat oven to 500 degrees. Place flour in mixing bowl. With pastry
I;dried rose petals 2 Tbsp
I;Creole seasoning, to taste
D;degree
D;Arrange cherry tomatoes and mint sprigs in small clusters on ice in ring
D;Beat the eggs, add the sugar and beat until smooth. Add the salt,
I;1/2 tsp paprika (optional) 
D;Tex-Mex Waffles
D;crockpot. Flake the fish carefully and add to
D;side. Add the salsa, oregano, salt and pepper to the
I;3/4 teaspoons Black peppercorns -- freshly-cracked
I;Asparagus and Crab Meat Soup (Mang Tay Nau
I;(each about 8 oz.), floured
I;mushrooms, sauteed in 2 tablespoons butter
D;Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Butterfly fillets. Open and season
D;and add to stew along with remaining cup water and remaining 1/2
D;a time, into thin strips, about 1 inch apart on ungreased cookie sheets.
D;the sauce a few more minutes, Serve chops with rice  and snow peas.
D;3. Add the maple and pumpkin and combine.
D;remove the bitterness from the greens. Drain. When cooled, squeeze out
D;a blender or food processor (or by hand). Preheat oven to 350 deg F and
I;2  tablespoons butter, softened
I;Dinner Rolls
I;2 hard boiled eggs, chopped
D;Add spinach, cook 3-5 minutes or until spinach is thawed,
D;5 grapefruit on either side of the avocado and shrimp salad.
D;thickens enough to coat spoon, stirring constantly, about 3 minutes (do
I;5 oz fresh shiitake mushrooms, stems discarded and caps quartered (2
I;2 tsp. grated orange rind
D;stirring frequently; set aside.
D;a greased and lined 18 x28 cm (7 x 11 inch) shallow cake tin and bake for 25
D;five soup ingredients to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat and
I;1 can (15 oz.) whole tomatoes
I;1 can (15 ounces) white asparagus spears, drained and cut crosswise in
D;Triple-Lemon Muffins
D;of pans and invert layers onto racks. Carefully remove wax paper and
I;inch pieces
D;make well in center. Combine margarine, lemon rind, 2 tablespoons lemon
D;meat mixture for each. When broth boils, stir in pastina and
D;through a fine-mesh sieve into a metal bowl. Set bowl in a larger bowl
D;desired.
I;Whole almonds, lightly toasted (optional)
I;1 1/2 cup Sugar
I;1 1/4 teaspoons hot sauce
D;2. Cream the shortening and sugars together. Add the eggs one at a time,
D;2. Combine Ricotta cheese, brown sugar, half-and-half, flour, maple syrup,
I;2 tsp baking soda
I;Salt & pepper  to taste
D;to cool slightly.
D;orange mixture.
D;spicy.
D;Grease and flour bottoms of 2 (9") layer cake pans. Mix first 4
D;at room temperature
I;2 tsp. Cheese, blue, crumbled (opt 1/4 Cup Cheese, grated
D;molds or rings. Chill until form. Unmold.
I;1 Tbsp oil
I;Chocolate sauce
I;onion powder
I;1 sm. onion, chopped
D;Try to find a dense loaf about 8-inches in diameter or you can purchase
D;color of brains.)
I;1 (9 ounce) package Angel Hair Pasta, prepared according to package
I;Vanilla ice cream
I;1 16-ounce boneless shell steak (also called New York strip steak, short
I;5 pounds apples (granny smith and golden delicious) peeled and into
I;1 1/4 cups chicken broth
D;Add sugar and cornstarch; beat on medium-high speed until smooth, about
D;simmer a few hours (3 to 4 hours). Mix ground meat, cheese, milk,
I;Fresh ground black pepper
D;5 tablespoons raspberry preserves, or a little more
I;pinch dried red pepper flakes
I;4 T. unsalted butter, plus more for the dish
I;15 oz diced tomatoes, drained
I;½ tsp. celery salt
I;A pinch of Parsley
I;MISCELLANEOUS
I;1 pkg of Pepperidge Farm Puffed Pastry Sheets
D;and cornstarch in a small bowl. Stir until dissolved; whisk into
I;1 pound beef stew meat
I;garlic powder
D;Categories: Breads, Rolls, Quick
I;Acini de pepe (1/2 - 3/4 box)
I;Topping recipe
I;3 Tbsp Oil
D;over each cookie. About 4 dozen cookies.
I;4 12-inch flour tortillas (wheat if possible); warmed
D;If not serving immediately, either reheat chocolate sauce in double boiler for
D;Buttermilk Soup - Kærnemælkssuppe
I;several drops hot pepper sauce
I;3 12 to 4 cups bread flour
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
D;Sprinkle brisket with paprika and rub in. Add brisket to pot, fat side
I;Jammin_Family_Style
D;Reqeust From: Tiffani Keaton <tiffers.recipes@nothingmail.com>
D;Aunt to 16 Girls and Boys
D;favorites
D;doneness, turning frequently to brown on all s  ides.  Drain. Set aside.
D;airtight container.
D;Bake for 25-30 minutes or until the logs are set and lightly browned. Cool
D;good ones in here.
D;Make hamburgers. Mix ground beef lightly with sals, chili
D;warm or cold, plain or with whipped cream.
D;handle.
I;1437    *Total calories 54    *Total protein             7    *Total fat
I;1/2 can pimiento
D;dill. You can also add noodles, marrow, or clos (matzah) balls.
I;Chicken:
I;1/8 t. celery salt
D;Rice-Stick Noodles With Exotic Mushrooms
I;chili sesame oil (rayu)
D;Continue beating, adding remaining ingredients and gelatin, until blended. Place
D;Heat the oil in a large saucepan over low heat. Add the sugar and stir
I;8 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves (about 2 pounds).
D;Tuck the meat and skin evenly under the breast forming a dome shape. Bake
I;1 cup red wine
I;1/2 medium green bell pepper, cored and finely chopped
D;heavy saucepan. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into cream mixture, then
D;form a crust. In a large bowl combine remaining
D;9-10 inch pumpkin should cook for about 2 hours, or until knife easily
I;1/4 cup chopped canned pimiento
D;History from Clayton Schmitt
D;equal pieces. Roll each piece into 9-inch-long rope. Braid 3 ropes
I;---Flaky Pastry---
I;2 cups mozzarella cheese, shredded
I;Whipped cream
D;vary greatly.
I;1/3 cup confectioners' sugar
D;Mocha Ice Cream Sundaes With Coffee-Caramel Sauce
D;vegetable oil for 10 to 15 minutes, until the onions are translucent
I;2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine (preferably Shaoxing) or medium-dry
I;1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper
I;1/2 cup dried sour cherries
I;2 garlic cloves, minced
D;-In a saucepan, heat milk, oil, sugar and salt to lukewarm, stirring to
D;Once veggies are tender, add cooked meat, the green
D;Percent Calories from Fat 38%
D;Place truffle in 1 prepared pie dish. Repeat with remaining vanilla ice
I;1 pound packaged dry gnocchi-shaped pasta (such as gnocchetti, cavatelli
I;salt & freshly ground black pepper to taste
I;Vegetable oil spray
D;Put the other can of broth in another pan, add a can of water, and
D;Benihana's Mandarin Orange Cheesecake
D;fold in whipped topping. Spoon into pie crust. Sprinkle remaining bits over
D;Difficulty: 2
D;COOK and drain the pasta.
D;eggs, one at a time; blend until smooth. Pour over crust. Bake 1 hour or
I;5 cups chicken broth
I;1/3 cup slivered red onion
D;baked Shrimp
D;The very best version of this classic soup that I have ever had was
D;6 servings.
I;3 1/4 cup Simple Tomato Sauce or store-bought marinara sauce
I;substituted)
D;For Cookie Base:
D;pineapple, jam and bananas over cream cheese layer. Top with Cool Whip.
I;1 teaspoon dried tarragon leaves, crushed
I;3 pounds carrots, cut into 3- by 1/2-inch sticks
D;Spread batter in pan (layer will be thin).
I;salt & pepper to taste.
I;1 or 2 bouillon cubes
D;oven to 350F.
D;RASPBERRY STRIPS:
D;tightly with string or make a knot in the casing itself. Repeat until all
D;occasionally until the mixture is very thick; 1 1/2 hours. Add the water and
I;1/4 cup whole pecans
D;(1 to 2 minutes). Add vanilla and lemon peel; continue beating until
I;1/4 t. pepper
I;1/2 large cucumber, peeled and cut in 1/2-inch dice
D;Parmesan cheese. Serve immediately with French bread. Garnish, if desired.
D;hours or overnight.
D;crumbs, cheese, basil and onion. Shape mixture into 3/4 inch balls and
I;1/2 cup prepared bottled light Italian or balsamic vinaigrette dressing
D;Pulse almonds with sugar in a food processor until finely ground. Cook
I;Baked tortilla chips, if desired
D;15 minutes to several hours to boost flavors.
I;Almond topping mixture:
D;Start making this at least one day ahead.
D;Usually takes 2 or 3 biscuits.
D;Topping:
I;4 cups (30 oz.) Sargento® Light Ricotta Cheese
I;cilantro or parsley sprigs
D;orange wedges and pour over the top of the firmed-up cheesecake that's 
D;soy sauce and rayu, serve with lots of hot fluffy rice.
D;mint, and serve with flour tortillas.
D;3 Tbsp. butter with the 1/4 tsp. salt, dried basil and oregano. Toss
I;salad oil
D;with the yolk mixture. Chill to blend flavors.
D;Mix diced ham, chiles and green onions. Add shredded cheese, mixing well.
I;3 cups flour
I;1 cup soft bread crumbs
D;chicken again with the remaining ingredients, and proceed as above.
D;Yield: 12 Rolls
D;In large, heavy saucepan or Dutch oven, combine chicken broth and
I;4 ribs celery sliced
I;1 1/2 hours or until the meat is tender.
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2
I;3 or 4 eggs
I;Sesame Wonton Crisps
D;-Published serving suggestion said to try with a red wine.
D;Baking Time: 1 hour
I;Chopped cashews for topping, optional
I;finely grated rind of one lemon
D;Using hot pad and holding dish very firmly, place plate gently atop 1
I;1 teaspoon instant minced onion
D;of pans with parchment paper rounds. Stir chocolate in top of double
D;flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with 1/3 cup buttermilk in 2
D;Rinse frozen spinach well, let drain until very dry, then chop. 
D;min.
I;1/2 teaspoon baking soda
D;room temperature before serving.
I;butter to dot
D;boil gently for 20 minutes longer. Serve warm.
D;Source: Real Simple
I;Freshly ground black pepper
D;Cookie Swap
I;1/2 teaspoon finely minced red chili pepper or crushed red pepper flakes
D;375ºF. Roll dough out on lightly floured board to 1/8
I;2 teaspoons orange zest
D;remaining blueberries. Sprinkle evenly with crumb topping.
I;1 small green bell pepper
D;and garnish with cheese.
D;Stir 1/2 cup water and sugar in heavy large saucepan. Add half of
D;This recipe is a version I found in a booklet "Our Hungarian Mothers", by
D;the dough in half and make two medium-size pizzas.
I;Mexican Chocolate Brownies
I;1 Large onion -- chopped
I;3 cups milk
D;thick, and I have not tried making it with a hand mixer for this reason
D;Add tomatoes and continue to cook for another couple of minutes.
D;graham cracker-almond crust filled with a creamy smooth, ultra-rich,
I;best)
I;Oil - for deep frying
D;over rice.
I;Cornmeal for preparing the baking sheet
D;Here's my dry rub recipe for ribs. I would suggest you have your doctor
D;juice. Cover and cook at low setting until alligator is very tender
D;slices of ciabatta bread
D;Cover and cook for 6 to 8 hours on LOW.
I;4 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
D;simmer until reduced to about 3/4 cup, about 10 minutes. Add marmalade
D;Jews found an answer in the freedom offered by the Enlightenment
I;2 cloves garlic finely chopped
D;layer. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top
I;Apricot Basil Orange Dressing:
D;sweetened condensed milk. Add eggs, one at a   time, the cornstarch and
D;distribute 1/4 cup of topping in the pan. Fold the remaining topping
D;minutes. Serve hot. Ladle into soup bowls and top with a spoonful of
I;3 pounds beef shank cross cuts, cut 1 inch thick
I;1 4-pound boneless first-cut beef brisket
I;Pastry Cream:
D;to a boil over medium heat; cook and stir until sugar is dissolved. Add
D;I found this recipe on the internet.  It sounds similar to what you are
D;pie plate.
D;Clean shrimp and cut in small pieces. Cut pimentos, add to mushroom
I;1 1/2 cups tawny Port
D;layer until chocolate sets, about 5 minutes.
D;a gentle boil and then to a low simmer. Season  with salt, pepper, drops
D;Irish Cream Chocolate Mousse Cake
D;Preheat oven to 400°. Place oil in a large bowl. Add dry pasta
D;veal to work surface, scraping any sauce back into pot. Remove strings.
I;2 pork tenderloins (about 3/4 pound each), cut into 1-inch-thick slices
I;2 (10 ounce) cans diced tomatoes with green Chile peppers
D;boils, reduce to simmer to cook chicken. When chicken is cooked,
I;2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
I;1 cup uncooked instant white
D;the larger pan so that it comes halfway up the sides of the cheesecake
I;1/2 pound  pork loin, tenderloin, or ground pork
I;2 pounds shrimp - peeled -- but with the tail on
D;-- Native American Proverb
D;towels. Arrange the fruit in slightly overlapping, concentric cirlces
I;1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
I;sea salt and fresh ground black peppercorns
D;desired, serve over mashed potatoes or cooked rice. Makes
I;dressing
D;Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add
D;14-ounce package of frozen fruit pulp (sold pureed or in chunks in
D;In a large skillet over moderate heat, saute the chopped onion,
I;1               (14-oz.) can sweetened condensed milk -- such as
D;top edges are dark brown, and centers are still soft and runny, about
D;Add 1 cup boiling water and let stand 30 minutes.
D;file is compressed.
D;the top of the cake.
I;salt, pepper and Caribbean jerk seasoning
D;cheesecloth. Draw up the sides of the cloth to form a "bag." Twist the
D;Remove the bacon from the skillet, drain, and crumble. In the
D;off all drippings. Make barbecue sauce. Combine all the
D;with a light gray ash color.
D;touch; otherwise, they will be forever bonded during the cooking process.
I;28 Oz Canned Tomatoes
D;Source: http://www.kktv.com/recipes/headlines/546462.html
D;Recipe By: Idlewild
I;Apple Slices
I;20 chicken bouillon cubes 
I;Chopped peanuts for garnish
D;wrap tightly when cold. Serve in small portions, accompanied, if you
D;OR, place yolks in food-storage bag. Add remaining ingredients, except egg
D;Snacks & Savouries
D;squash. Bake at 375 degrees for 30 minutes; turn squash
I;completely
I;1 potato -- sliced
I;Butter -- softened
D;warming in oven.
I;1 pk (or 1 tablespoon) Active Dry -Yeast -or-
I;4 celery stalks, finely chopped
D;crusty.
D;Cook,
D;Nancy
I;1.75 pound (800gr) boneless chicken thighs, skin removed
D;Prepare Ham and Green Chile Filling:
D;fat, 82 mg cholesterol, 344 mg sodium, 29 g carbohydrate, 1 g fiber,
I;2 1/2 cups sifted flour
D;per side. Remove from pan; set aside.  Drain off all but 2 teaspoons of
D;Cook, stirring occasionally; the cooking time will depend on the
I;to 1 1/2 lbs.) cut into 2 inch pieces
D;center of cake. Cut cake into wedges and serve, passing remaining
D;Clean and cut up the endive. Boil in large amount of water until
I;2 tablespoons butter * see note
I;2 Tbsp Cold water
D;seasoning injector
D;one, brushing each sheet quickly and all over with melted butter.
D;side.  Drain on paper towel.
D;F. Grease cookie sheets (olive oil). Make garlic oil.  In blender put 12
I;1  lb fresh ricotta cheese
I;Tirsch, Published by William and Morrow, 1993.
I;5 leaves fresh spinach (or less depending on taste)
D;set aside. In a large heavy saucepan, combine water, sugar, corn syrup
I;Mint leaves (optional)
I;--Brownies--
D;10 minutes or heat in microwave for about a minute.
D;chilled and slightly firm. Preheat
I;1 Tbsp.alt
D;constantly with a wooden spoon, until thick enough to coat back of
I;Gray salt
I;1 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
D;Meat, Poultry, Seafood, Vegetarian, Side
I;melted
D;Remove from heat and put plastic wrap on the surface to prevent skin from
I;For Crust:
I;2 large eggs & 1 egg yolk
D;In a saucepan or microwave-safe bowl, heat the beans. Place corn
I;8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
D;taste. The cheese makes the difference, so don't be stingy. Then
I;5 carrots, halved then finely sliced on the bias
D;cheesecake until filling is golden around edges and center moves only
I;Black pepper, to taste
D;Shake the mixture well, and strain it into a tall glass filled with ice
D;marshmallows and maraschino cherries to float in punch.
D;pat off excess.
I;2 tablespoons soy sauce
D;sites
D;Better Than Arby's Chicken Salad Sandwiches
D;deep fry  wings until crispy and cooked through (juices run clear).
I;1/2 cup toasted nuts, any combination of pine nuts, hazelnuts, walnuts or
D;recipe yields 6 servings.
I;Relish:
D;Sandy Ulmer
D;depending on power of microwave). Turn chocolate square onto 1 side and
I;1 1/2 C. diced celery
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding07.html
I;Sugar substitute equivalent to 1 tablespoon sugar
I;1 1/4 cups milk
I;1 (4-ounce) package crumbled feta cheese
D;Cream butter, gradually adding sugar; beating well at medium speed of electric 
I;1 package Hamburger Helper cheeseburger macaroni
I;The Arizona Republic
I;1 cup salted peanuts
D;can of beer into the chicken.
D;for 20 minutes. Strain and cool.
D;plates. Serve with the whipped cream and sprinkle with nutmeg. Serves 8 to 12
I;1 or 2 cloves garlic, minced
I;1/2 cup Thinly sliced Green Shallot (Scallion) Tops
D;wax paper, in an airtight container.
I;2 med Acorn squash- (about 1 1/2 lb each), split, peeled, seeded and quartered
D;to cook. During last 30 minutes, add escarole and stir. During last
I;4 quarts water
D;For crust:
D;Preheat oven to 325 F. In baking pan, spread 1 teaspoon olive oil; top
I;1 1/2 cups dry red wine
D;cut the meat into bite-size chunks. Refrigerate. Remove the fat from
D;claims to be Italian. If this soup could be used as evidence, it must
I;1/4 cup chopped green onions -- including tops
D;ice cream, placing ice cream on prepared baking sheet. Freeze ice cream
I;1 1/2 cup dark beer (12 ounces), at room temperature
I;1 teaspoon Jim Beam whiskey
I;1-1/2 cups whole unblanched almonds
D;Serves 8 to 10.
I;Mushroom Stuffing:
D;family from polishing it off!
D;and mix thoroughly, so that all the pieces of pasta are coated. Grate a
D;scallions coarsely. Crumble pork and fry it, drain the excess oil.
D;Harvest Moons
D;bowl; mix well. Stir in butter; mix well. Press into prepared
D;BEEF STROGANOFF
I;to mix thoroughly.
D;5:30 p.m. Time was scarce. To compensate, my mom had a collection of
D;Reduce heat; cover. Simmer 15 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
D;I love and am loved.
I;1 Tbsp granulated sugar
D;Brown meat in electric skillet; add remaining ingredients except noodles. Bring
I;ds Salt
D;proceed with step 3 (above), or bring your chicken stock to a low
I;1/2 cup dry bread crumbs
I;2 Roma tomatoes; ends trimmed, and cut into 12 slices
D;of cake on cake plate and spread with half of the
D;Keywords: Diabetic, Vegetables, Vegetarian, Main dish
I;1 pint chocolate ice cream
D;Garnish the Bloody Mary with the celery stick and the lemon wedge.
I;Garnish: nacho chips, sour cream, and basil shreds
I;To Finish:
I;1 t. vinegar
D;<http://recipes.epicurean.com/recipe/15196/candied-fig-hazelnut-and-orange-cheesecake-with-port-sauce.html>
D;occasionally. Cover and cook for 3 mnutes to dissolve sugar crystals.
D;Calories from fat 27; cholesterol 5 mg; sodium
I;2 cans of cream of anything soup
D;Paprikas Weiss' Hungarian Cucumber Salad
D;Directions:
I;mozzarella cheese, shredded
D;macaroni, crumbs, pimiento, parsley, and onion.
I;1/2 tsp  salt
I;1/2 c Butter or margarine -- melted
I;2 teaspoon baking powder
D;Prepare Glaze:  Beat together 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 to 2 tablespoons
I;Poultry seasoning
D;not let boil). Remove from heat and force custard through a fine-mesh
I;6 tablespoons bourbon
D;In a 4-6 quart crockery cooker, combine cabbage, undrained tomatoes,
D;In another pot, bring reserved broth and canned chicken broth to
D;center. Fold both sides of leaf toward center (over filling), then fold
I;50 minutes.
I;lemon pepper to taste
I;1-1/2 cups frozen reduced-calorie whipped topping, thawed and divided
D;Recipe from Family Circle
D;Fill a 6-cup ring mold with water halfway up the side; freeze about 2 hours.
I;1 Dash Grenadine
D;and let stand about 2 minutes. Pour bran mixture over
D;Spiced Banana Ice Cream
D;or with honey.
D;Ready In: 3 Hours
D;"The Low-Carb Gourmet" by Karen Barnaby
I;1/2 t. crushed red pepper flakes
D;Kathy Stanaway's mouth-watering recipe makes enough for two
D;Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat egg mixture
D;Mix cream cheese, sugar and peanut butter well. Fold in Cool Whip. Spread
D;Remove chocolate bands from refrigerator. Using fingertips, lift 1 band
D;Creek Inn Idyllwild (CA) Jim Goff (Innkeeper) Posted: Robert Bass Corona CA
I;6 Oz Tomato paste
D;Source The Beany Malone Cookbook
I;1/8 teaspoon salt
I;1 teaspoon dried basil
D;ginger in the traces of pork oil left in the pan. Add the pork and
I;2 eggs, beaten  
I;1 small onion grated
D;tablespoons bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese, and 1/2
I;Yield: 4 Servings
D;2. Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok over high heat until a bead of
I;clams)
I;1/2 cup finely shredded reduced-fat sharp Cheddar cheese
D;Apricot Bread Pudding with Caramel Sauce
I;1/2 c. chopped nut meats
D;brown on all sides; 8 minutes per side. Remove meat and wipe out casserole.
I;2 Tb Olive oil
D;butter. Serve warm over pancakes.
I;1 1/4 pounds each
D;Preparation Time: 20 minutes
D;all the butter   is incorporated and the sauce coats the back of a spoon,
D;butter, coriander, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, and white pepper in
I;1/4 cup Packed brown sugar
I;1 Rib Celery -- chopped
I;1 10 ounce package frozen chopped spinach thawed and drained
I;1 pint vanilla ice cream
I;1 package (14 to 15 ounces) cubed seasoned stuffing mix
D;hours.
D;Recipe By     : Home Cooking Magazine -Oct. 1998
I;1/2 cup Romano cheese
D;gently to keep mixture smooth and well blended.
I;1 cup hickory -- mesquite, pecan or apple wood chips, soaked
I;Juice of 1 large orange
I;cup Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
D;Spiced Braised Lamb With Carrots And Spinach
D;1/4-inch [6mm] deep and 2 inches
D;<http://food4.epicurious.com/HyperNews/get/archive_swap51601-51700/51626.html>
I;8-1/2 oz. can unsweetened crushed pineapple, drained
D;Cialde
I;6 oz (168 grm). Velveta cheese (more or less)
I;1/2 teaspoon grated gingerroot
D;your chicken stock to a boil, add the meatballs, simmer for about 25
I;Spinach fettuccine noodles or egg noodles
D;prepare baking pan (cast iron is best) by greasing with butter (butter works
I;Parmesan and Romano cheese (grated)
I;1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
D;Cooking Instructions
I;ham steak
I;1 large cut-up chicken, preferably stewing or large roaster
D;I cut off any hanging excess fat from the chicken. I also used a smaller
D;over baklava.
D;Creamy Mustard Beets
I;1                    egg -- slightly beaten
I;at specialty produce markets and some supermarkets)
D;wrap. Cool to room temperature.
D;Cover; refrigerate overnight.
D;Garnish with the peperoncini.
D;first). Mix the frozen spinach with the chicken broth until it is
D;12 servings
D;8 rectangles; firmly press perforations to seal. In small bowl, combine
I;1 2/3 Cups sugar
D;making
D;back of a spoon, about 7 minutes. Do not allow to boil. Transfer to a
D;cool on wire racks.
I;8 tortillas
D;Brownies
I;honey dijon BBQ sauce
I;2 tablespoons heavy cream
D;Cover and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.   Serves 8.  
I;1/4 lb Dandelion greens, green leaves only, halved
D;later.
D;Recipe from Betty Crockers 1-2-3 Dinners
D;continue cooking another 5 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in the
D;cheese.
D;Number of Servings: 10
D;oven or barbeque.
D;soy sauce to taste. (I use more memmi than soy sauce, but you may not
D;the chicken in a buttered pan in a preheated 350 degree oven for 30 to 35
I;8 Slices Salami or Prosciutto (If using prosciutto 6 slices are enough)
D;5 minutes, or until fragrant. Transfer to a  small bowl. Heat oil in a
I;1/2 teaspoon cumin
D;mixture to the remaining half and half and place the pan over medium
D;cream.
I;Salt & pepper to taste
I;2 tbl chopped fresh parsley
D;Chilaquiles: Preheat oven to 375 degrees.  In a deep fryer, heat oil over
I;4 medium baking potatoes cut into 1/4 slices, about 4 cups
I;3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
D;carrots to steamer basket and steam 10 minutes, or until tender. Transfer
I;2 boneless skinless chicken breast halves (6 ounces each)
D;into baking dish when ready to bake.
I;1 tablespoon fresh parsley, chopped 
D;1 minute. Pour sauce mixture over chicken. Cook, stirring until
D;Using hot knife, cut around pan sides to loosen ice cream cake. Remove
D;Drain. Add all remaining ingredients. Cover and cook 4-6
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Grind mushrooms to powder in coffee or spice
D;In large bowl of electric mixer, combine softened cream cheese, sugar,
D;Maple Praline Cheesecake from Sargento.com
I;6 oz sugar
I;1 1/2 quart baking casserole. Arrange half of the sweet potato slices
D;recipe yield: 6 servings.
D;in melted butter in 13 x 9 x  2-inch baking dish. Bake uncovered in 425
I;fresh coriander
D;casserole in a roasting pan, pull the oven rack out halfway, and place the pan
D;water to the saucepan and bring to a boil. Cover the
D;cake for at least another hour before serving.  To serve, cut cake into 
I;1  drop red food coloring
I;1 3/4 c. orange juice
I;2 teaspoons baking powder
I;Mint sprigs
D;setting for 7-8 hours. (On HIGH setting for 3-4 hours.) One hour
D;from a cleaned kitchen to a set table, complete with ice in glasses, by
D;minutes or up to 4 hours. Serve cold.
D;frypan; add beer and carrots. Cook slowly until tender stirring frequently. Stir
I;1/2 cup half-and-half
D;batter. Pour into a well-greased 10-inch tube pan.
I;1 1/2 cups hot brewed coffee
I;Seasones croutons and fresh parsley
I;18 to 24 pearl white and/or red onions, oven roasted and peeled
D;water and wet the entire edge of the skin. Close the dumpling securely,
I;butter, for greasing
I;1 tablespoon brown sugar
D;cut side up. Divide sweet potatoes among squash cavities.
D;Mix sugar and cornstarch together in double boiler. Add the 2 cups of water.
D;lightly over the chicken during the last few minutes of grilling. This
D;. Stuffed cabbage rolls can be cooked 2 days ahead and cooled,
I;1/4 cup wheat germ
D;kombu.
I;1 tablespoon butter or margarine
I;1 cup finely chopped pecans
I;you prefer
D;ELVIS_has_not_left_the_building
D;Garnish just before serving. Drizzle with Roquefort Salad Dressing, as
D;coffee cake.
D;in milk mixture, squash, whole wheat flour and 1 cup of bread flour. Beat
D;sheet and bake for 15 minutes. Remove turn over and return to oven for 10
D;salt and let stand for 15 minutes. Squeeze out the liquid from the
I;Quick Crescent or Italian Flavor
D;from fat); 99g Protein; 529g Carbohydrate; 24g Dietary Fiber; 3059mg
D;asparagus.
D;Add the meatballs, adjust seasoning and heat through. 
D;Note: Make individual servings of this first course appetizer by arranging 4
I;1 1/2 inch thick
I;Sweetened whipped cream, to serve
I;half a cup of sugar
I;3 c. flour, sifted
I;2 teaspoons vanilla extract
I;Mix all the above ingredients well in a bowl
I;1/3 cup solid vegetable shortening
D;chicken.
D;wooden spoon and stirring occasionally, 30 minutes.
D;Blend until smooth.
D;and let cook another 15 minutes.
D;Put all ingredients in the crock pot and cook on low, stirring
D;sheet. Bake for 7-8 minutes. Makes 4 dozen cookies.
D;you are sending us a valid address.
I;Freshly milled black pepper
I;1/2 recipe Boston cream filling - recipe followed
D;Stir until cheese is melted.
I;1 (15 oz.) can peas, drained
I;3 whole cloves 
D;Any remianing butter cream can be used to decorate
I;1/2 pound fresh green beans, cut in pieces
D;minutes, add the spinach, cook until tender, stir in the cheese and serve)
D;1/2 Vegetable;  0 Fruit; 0 Fat; 1/2 Other Carbohydrates.
I;2 Tbsp        vegetable oil
I;Add and return to a boil, stirring constantly:
D;occasionally, for about 5 minutes. Add to meat mixture. Toss ingredients
D;In a large saucepan combine rice and water. Cook over high heat until
D;other
I;1 tablespoon pepper 
D;flexible, about 2 minutes.
I;Flour
D;a steel blade. Process until the herbs are minced. Scrape down the sides, and
D;combined. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture until just
D;Saute ground beef, pork sausage, and then pour off drippings. Saute
D;French Omelet
I;1 medium Onion, diced
I;Paprika, optional
D;skillet over medium-high heat. Brown chicken 2 minutes, turn and brown
I;Salt & Pepper
I;2 egg yolks beaten
D;the cumin and salt to taste.
I;1 10-ounce can diced tomatoes with roasted garlic
D;Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt in a 1 1/2 quart saucepan. Gradually add
D;and let stand, covered, 30 minutes.
I;Garnish: fresh basil sprigs
D;Combine all ingredients. Mix well.
I;Grated rind of 1 lemon
D;the Sugar Free Apricot Jam with it.
D;1 In a saucepan over medium heat, combine the wine, vinegar, oil, sugar,
D;but still firm to bite, stirring occasionally.
I;sweet peppers (optional)
D;Bacon Corn Muffins
D;40-50 minutes (the amount of time will depend upon the size of the beets).
I;confectioner's sugar for dusting
I;1/4 cup real bacon pieces or 4 slices bacon, crisply cooked, crumbled
I;1 1/2 lbs boneless skinless chicken breast halves, cut in 1" strips
I;1 can (4 ounces) diced green chili peppers. drained
D;heat and cook for 20-30 minutes until tender. Drain well. Do not let cool.
I;to taste salt and pepper
D;Toss cooked macaroni with butter, top with bean mixture, and sprinkle with
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon
I;1/2 cup flour
D;parchment with cookies from sheet onto a rack to cool completely.
D;Baked Salmon with Lemon and Shallots
D;SHAKERS' CORN PUDDING Tampa Tribune
D;Bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add linguine, and cook until al
I;1/2 c red wine/other liquor (optional)
D;Penzeys and online.
D;thermometer placed in the thickest part of the meat reads 150 to 180
D;Remove veal from oven ... it should be tender enough to cut with a
D;Zuppa maritata 
I;Walnut halves
D;pan using tip of a dinner knife, then invert rack over pan and turn
I;1/2 cup tomato juice
D;juices.
D;I use plain yogurt in this recipe.
D;up to 2 days.
D;Calories 159
I;1 1/2 cups (6 oz.) shredded Cheddar cheese
D;minutes at 375F.
I;For The Pesto Sauce
I;1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
D;Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, about 2 hours. Loosen cake from
D;KUGEL YERUSHALMI
D;Bake in a 375F oven until tops are lightly browned (about 20 minutes). Let
I;1/2 cup lt. brown sugar, firmly packed
D;1. Whisk eggs, salt and pepper in a medium bowl to blend. Heat oil in a
D;1.5 hour.
I;1/2 cup fine dry bread crumbs
D;Sift flour, measure, and sift with baking powder and salt. Cut in
I;2 pounds shrimp, cooked, peeled, deveined and chopped
D;minutes while deglazing the pan.
D;an electric mixer until thick and pale, about 1 minute. Add milk
I;1/4 t. black pepper
I;2 large eggs, at room temperature
D;a bowl before freezing. Adjust the amount of simple syrup according to
D;juice and 3 tablespoons sugar to a boil in a 1-quart saucepan and
D;Cheesy Chicken Noodles OnLine Cookbook
I;5-6 hamburger buns
D;Combine butter, evaporated milk, sugar,
D;White Corn Chowder
D;Plate and serve.
D;remove chicken from bones, discarding skin and bones; cut
D;fast.
D;round or 8-inch tart pan bottom. Spread 1 cup frosting over bottom cake
I;1/2 cup ground peanuts
I;1 bunch asparagus, trimmed and cut into 2-inch pieces
D;2001. Christine and her husband, Leo had just bought a house here.  Now
D;until the top is lightly browned.
D;a wooden spoon.
D;Kielbasa, Great Northern Beans, green beans, onion, catsup, brown sugar,
D;375 F for 20 minutes.
D;top, reduce heat to medium-low, and cook omelet until almost set. Sprinkle
I;1 tablespoon vegetable oil (15 mL)
I;1 lb. shrimp, deveined and shelled
D;This is even better the next day!
D;you like.
I;grated zest 1 lemon and 1 tablespoon lemon juice
I;1/2 cup dry red wine or reduced-sodium beef broth
D;and cranberry mixture on top.
D;onion, meat, eggs, salt and pepper. Beat 1 c. milk into mixture with electric
I;8 T Rum
I;3 lg. red snapper or flounder (1 1/4
D;Request: I am looking for any Soup recipes that has lemon or a lemon
I;1 3-ounce package cream cheese, softened
D;220C/425/Gas 7 for the last part. Have a look at it now and then to make
D;Debbie
I;1-2 firm but ripe avocados
D;The escarole: 
I;1 cup wheat germ
D;Sodium: 430 Potassium: 378 Cholesterol: 31
D;Bake the shrimp (not quite as long as the recipe says) then when you
I;1 1/2 lbs. chicken, cut up
I;Kosher Salt to taste
I;14 1/2ouncesdiced tomatoes with juices
D;machine running, add warm custard, and process just long enough to
I;Sherry Vinaigrette:
D;sweeten the deal.
D;melted. Remove from heat, then add sugar and whisk until dissolved,
I;Bhutta Chaat
I;6 ripe pears (about 2 pounds), peeled, cored, and cut in 1/2-inch dice
D;degrees.
I;2 cups small pasta (pastina, or broken spaghetti)
I;1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
I;black pepper, salt to taste
D;x 6 x 1-1/2 inch baking dish. Quarter cheese slices
D;make a thin batter.
D;Cook noodles according to package directions; drain. Combine all
I;1/2 c Water
I;*Substitute
D;Chocolate Layer Cake With Mocha Frosting And Almonds
D;39 mg; total carbohydrate 26 g; dietary fiber 8 g;
D;season to taste. Form meat into small balls about 1 inch in diameter.
I;1 pkg. Ham, cooked and thinly sliced
D;shopping) they are called cherbureki and sold on the street. Simferopol is
I;1 Can Cream Of Mushroom Soup
D;foam is gone.
D;taste. Cool then drain.
I;1 can cream of mushroom soup
D;It's a good idea to give your kids a nutritious meal
I;Salt
I;1/4 cup plain low-fat yogurt
D;Tabasco Beef Ring
I;2 ounces Butter
D;Preheat 350 Filling: Mix ricotta, egg, 2 tablespoons of Parmesan, 2
D;Serves 8 to 10
I;2  tablespoons milk
D;As I grow in self-acceptance, I am
I;1 (4 1/2 oz.) can shrimp
I;1 pound of confectioner's sugar (Aprx. 4 1/2 Cups sifted)
I;1/4           cup  bourbon
I;3/4 cup heavy cream
I;1 1/2 cups Green Giant Frozen
D;Yield: 1 serving
I;1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
I;3 tablespoons fat-free hot fudge syrup
I;pinch Red Pepper flakes
I;Sour cream, horseradish, for garnish
D;Combine milk, cheese, and butter; cook and stir over
D;(1900 ml) oblong baking dish arrange potatoes in overlapping rows.
D;6 minutes, or until gator tail meat is white and firm to the touch.
D;baking. Serve warm butter sauce as follows:
I;Cobbler topping ingredients
I;6 cloves garlic, minced
I;4 fillets, 4 to 5 ounces each of sole, cod, or other white fish
D;the cooked onions before adding them to the cream mixture. Sprinkle sweet
I;1 lb. boneless chicken, cut into small chunks or slivers
D;10-12 minutes until the top is golden brown. Let stand 5 minutes before
I;Fresh lemon slices and celery sticks
D;Unwrap pan of ice cream and cut out 12 (2 1/2-inch) ice cream rounds
I;lemon or orange zest, cut into thin strips, for garnish
D;3. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until set. Cool slightly; remove from cookie sheet
D;the onions. Heat the oil in a heavy saucepan and continue
I;2 14 1/2 x 3-inch waxed paper strips
D;cheesecake and then remove the springform sides. Press the reserved
I;4 cups chicken broth 
I;tarragon or sage springs; or chopped parsley
D;spaghetti sauce. In to a greased baking dish 10 by 6 by 1 1/2 inches pour a
I;1 cup dried apricots -- diced
D;as it comes to surface. Add remaining bouillon cubes and continue
D;From: Waldo Lydecker
D;confectioner's sugar.
D;but not dry. Gently fold the egg whites into the
I;optional 1 cup sliced mushrooms
D;slush.
I;Cucumber Sauce:
D;3/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 cup creamy butter 3-ounce package cream
I;1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary
D;Marinated Chicken
I;have crust too thick where pan sides and bottom meet). Chill until
D;Heat oven to 350ºF. Fit processor with steel blade.
I;1 can Evaporated milk
D;cut into 9 to 16 squares.
I;3/4 cup butter
I;1 9 ounce package refrigerated
D;and stir until gelatin is dissolved.  Set this aside.
I;1/8 teaspoon almond extract
D;center comes out clean.
D;served with this dish.
I;12 oz. 7-Up
D;minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn cakes out onto
I;1      pound         ground beef
I;dash salt
I;1/4           cup  honey
D;Recipe from Down Home Cookin (without the down home fat)
D;Boca Negra
D;. When ready to serve, stir in sherry and salt. Sprinkle with parsley.
D;Squeeze enough juice from all 3 oranges to measure 1 1/2 cups. Bring
I;8 med. potatoes, sliced
I;oranges)
D;Makes 4 servings
I;3 cucumbers
D;1/4 cup of the heavy cream into a small bowl. Add the egg yolk and beat
D;them. This cabbage soup still turned out great. Even hubby liked it. And he
D;room temperature.)
I;2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce (25 mL)
I;Clam juice
D;Freeze custard in ice cream maker. While ice cream is freezing, oil
D;ginger syrup. Spread half of ganache over top of cake. Place second layer,
I;1 tablespoon chopped herbs = (thyme, parsley, and rosemary)
I;1 large chicken breast
I;1/2 cup half and half
D;and cinnamon. Drizzle with butter; toss until thoroughly moistened. Set
D;as odor is very strong). Immediately pour onto prepared pan. Cool
D;is set and just beginning to come away from pan. Let cool in pan on rack
I;2 teaspoons ground coriander
D;sprinkle with remaining nuts.
I;tarragon
I;CRUMB TOPPING:
D;stir in marmalade mixture, vanilla, almond extract, and salt. Cool to
I;7 tablespoons freshly squeezed blood-orange juice, strained (1 to 2
I;1 package frozen chopped spinach
I;2 (to 4 depending on taste) Tbsp chili sauce (rooster)
D;(Peggy, if you write, please don't write to my msn addy)
D;7 to 10 minutes. Transfer meat to a slow cooker. Add the garlic, cumin,
I;Three 35-ounces cans imported San Marzano Italian plum tomatoes,
D;and/or
D;Fat: 5.1 g, Saturated Fat: 1.5 g, Fiber: 2 g,
I;12 quahogs
I;2      teaspoons     Worcestershire sauce
I;1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
D;For the topping, melt the apricot jam with the liquer (this can be done
D;Bloody Mary St. Pete Times
D;lemon and orange zests and 1 tablespoon of the grated ginger. Rub this
D;for a Super Bowl party!
D;melted butter. Cover with apples. Sprinkle with 1cup sugar and the
I;Gremolata:
I;1/8 tsp. salt
I;1 Tbsp ghee
I;red radish for garnish
I;1 cup red or green bell pepper strips (about 1 med. pepper)
D;is left in the pan, transfer the meat to a large, warm platter and reduce
I;1 28 ounce can diced tomatoes
D;Mix and heat mushroom soup and wine in a pot.
D;to trim any excess paper and chocolate). Refrigerate until chocolate
I;1 8 ounce container cool whip free
D;surface of shortening until funnel is empty. Batter should drip rapidly
D;Preparation - Medium
I;lemon wedges
I;Melted butter
D;.Freezes well. But please reheat
D;- in Denver, Dallas, Phoenix and San Jose, Calif. But the Denver
D;into the egg mixture a little at a time. Continue
D;equivalent to 3 Tablespoons of sugar.
I;Optional garnishes:
D;Spoon seafood mixture into center. Makes 6 servings
D;Source: <http://www.recipelink.com/mf/31/14731>
D;carrots
D;oven and brush liberally with the glaze. Return to the oven and bake
I;Bean & Spelt Soup
D;until tender.
D;13 by 9 inch baking dish. Pour hot water into dish with
D;flavor remains.
I;1 lb. ground meat or combination beef, pork and veal
I;1/4 pound extra lean ground beef
D;For buttercream frosting:
D;and it
D;the rest of the dressing over them
I;1 1/2 cups torn bread (not too fresh, whole wheat is OK)
I;1 8 oz can Pillsbury Refrigerated Quick Crescent Dinner Rolls
I;Steak:
I;1       tsp            Salt
I;2 sheets (18x24-inches each) Heavy Duty Aluminum Foil
I;4 loin boneless pork chops
I;strips
D;pocket in each chop with an equal amount of stuffing. Lightly brown chops
D;and baste with the marinade. Serves 4.
I;1 c. oatmeal
D;From: Martha Stewart
D;mill. Coarsely chop garlic, rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper in
D;The caramel sauce adds a grown-up edge to these summer treats.
D;watertight. (Heavy-duty foil is wider and will wrap around the pan
D;draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
D;Heat oven to 350 Degrees F.
D;Baked Stuffed Pumpkin
D;In a nonstick skillet or seasoned wok, heat two
D;For black pearl ganache:
I;1/4 to 1/2 cup of instant mashed potato flakes
I;CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE (recipe follows) or HERSHEY'S Chocolate Shoppe Topping
D;sides of 1 3/4-inch muffin cups.
I;canola or peanut oil for stir-frying
D;Small individual bags of pretzels or popcorn
I;1 1/2 Lb Med shrimp -- peel, devein
D;o'clock
D;Chorizo y Papas:
I;8ouncesthin green beans -- trimmed
I;1 medium sized, firm head Green Cabbage, finely shredded
I;seasoned flour
I;2 large onions 
D;remaining 1/2 cup broth and cheese. Simmer until polenta is warmed
D;a minute and add enough water to completely cover, bring to a
I;2 litres (31/2 pints) vegetable stock (freshly prepared works best)
D;and any remaining mushroom powder to pot around veal and stir 1 minute.
D;Recipe by: The National Pecan Marketing Council, Inc.
I;6 carrots, peeled and left whole
I;1 slice white bread -- crust removed (1/2-inch thick)
D;plastic wrap, then with clean kitchen towel. Let dough rise in warm
I;1 c Sugar
I;1 1/4 C. chopped onion
D;smooth and elastic, about 5 minutes, adding flour by tablespoonfuls if
D;Refrigerate until firm before cutting into bars.
D;Cover tightly with foil.
I;salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
D;Discard any unused marinade.  Serve with extra barbecue sauce on the side.
I;chicken broth
D;Cook onion in 1 T. butter until soft. Soak bread crumbs in 3/4 c. milk; mix with
I;1 green pepper, chopped
D;until smooth. Add cream cheese, and process again until smooth. With
I;4 cups whole milk
I;Barbecue Pork Fried Rice
D;Pour over crust.
I;2 teaspoons ground cardamom
I;1 pt Bailey's Irish cream
D;Add the tomatoes with their puree, the tomato paste, wine, parsley, oregano and
D;when pierced.
I;1/2 package (3/4 oz.) dry ranch-style dressing mix
D;Packages of sugar-free cocoa
D;Stuffed Chicken Breasts
D;Sauce* or other favorite sauce.
D;stream. Beat 5 minutes more, until very thick and
D;Serving Size : 2 Preparation Time :0:15
D;over waffles.
D;place in a 350F oven until hot (about 10 minutes).
I;1/2 tablespoon grated sapsago or geska cheese (1% fat maximum)
D;-Preheat oven to 325 degrees.
D;Remove foil. Bake until the pudding is almost set but still wobbly, 1 1/2 hours
D;Combine tomato juice and all seasonings in saucepan. Cover and bring to
I;2 tablespoons cornstarch
D;These mushrooms are great served on a salad or as a side dish.
D;Broiled Salmon With Sweet-and-Sour Cucumbers
I;1/4 teaspoon grated lemon peel
I;preferably imported, chopped
D;dip a knife or cake server in a glass of hot water, then wipe it dry
I;6 medium yams, boiled in skin until tender (about 20 - 30 minutes)
I;tortillas, salsa, sour cream,
D;Recipe from Creative Cooking Desserts
I;into thin ; 1 1/2"-long pieces - 1 cup
D;beating the egg yolks, add the sugar syrup in a thin
D;Categories : Pork & Ham
D;Drain 1 20-ounce can pineapple; fold in 1 8-ounce carton whipped topping, 2
I;1 med. pumpkin, seeds taken out and top left intact
D;pumpkin, and replace top.
I;Six 6- to-8-inch hero (hoagie) rolls, split
I;brown sugar
D;Peel and coarsely chop up the flesh.
D;With the ground beef, create small meat balls (1/2 inch in diameter).
D;butter, and lavender in large bowl until smooth. Beat in eggs, 1 at a
I;I make this often rarely with the exact same proportions, but always with
I;1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
D;a lot to the plate presentation.
D;Cafe Brulot
I;1/2 cup mayonnaise or salad
D;Serves 2.
I;1 1/4 t. Tabasco
D;beating until soft peaks form. Chill. Makes 2 cups.
D;While burger is cooking, melt butter in fry pan on medium heat or in
I;For a Romantic dinner ...Serve grilled lobster in a Blood orange Burre
D;Look for malted milk powder alongside the dry milk products in the
D;if separated. Grab a handful of  the sausage mixture and wrap around the
I;2 medium sweet potatoes or yams, cooked (nuked 5 mins) and diced
D;a boil.  Pour in a wide shallow bowl and season again if necessary.  When
D;Recipe from Diabetic Meals in 30 Minutes or Less
D;powdered sugar.
D;well. Heat oil in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion and
I;1 tb Lemon rind grated 3 Links (8-oz) smoked 8 Slices french bread thick -
D;beans and onion.
D;few lumps are okay.
D;- Nick Sundberg
D;semisweet chocolate will produce a wonderful result in either.
D;Sodium 392 mg
D;layer on top. Spread top and sides of cake with
I;1 c. egg noodles, crushed
D;Add 1 tsp. of dry mustard and 1 tsp. salt to egg and milk mixture.
D;Combine and blend all ingredients. Pack into a greased 9" ring mold. Bake in
D;Cheese "Steak" Pizza from Family Time Daily Dish
I;6 tb Soy sauce
I;1/2 cup natural chunky-style peanut butter (unsalted and unsweetened)
D;Pour the filling into the crust. Bake in the center of a preheated
D;flour again.
I;1 Cup mayonnaise
I;salt and pepper, to taste
D;and parsley to blender and quickly blend with meat. Put meat in a bowl and
D;chilled or room temperature.
D;Let soften at room temperature 20 minutes before serving.
D;substitute. Use your fingertips to distribute the egg substitute
D;health and stop compromising my integrity.
I;1 t. ground ginger
I;1 to 2 teaspoons egg substitute (such as Egg beaters), or whisked egg
D;dumplings to a 1 inch depth in dish. Submerge remaining blueberries
I;2 T. chopped parsley
D;This recipe yields about 3 cups.
D;meatballs on paper towels as they brown. Add meatballs to the soup and
I;2 tablespoons light molasses
D;Serves 8.
D;half-hour. Remove the cheesecake and let it finish cooling on a
D;*Dried lavender blossoms are available at natural foods stores and at
D;HOT FUDGE SUNDAES from Quick Cooking Mag.
D;and 4 tablespoons juice to a boil. Combine remaining tablespoon juice
I;32 ounces cream cheese, softened
I;cut into julienne strips
I;16 oz plain creme cheese in foil packs, softened  (not the kind in tubs)
D;(*try not to bubble the eggs.) Add dashi soup stock, soysauce, salt, sake,
I;1/4 c. milk
D;icing spatula, spread chocolate to cover strips evenly and completely,
I;4 cups powdered sugar, divided
D;tile-shaped cookies.
D;Mama's Italian Wedding Soup
D;Mix together the flour, salt, pepper and allspice. Coat meat on all
D;medium-high heat.  Add meatballs.  Cook for 5 to 7 minutes, or to desired
D;until serving time.
I;2 cups sliced almonds, toasted
I;2 avocados
I;into 1/2-inch pieces
D;Combine milk, egg and oil and add to the dry Ingredients. Beat slightly to
I;8 - 10 fresh sprigs of rosemary or 3 Tbsp. dried rosemary
I;6 T. soy sauce
I;1/2 tsp) salt
I;1 package linguini pasta
I;Salt & Pepper to taste
I;1 c Bread crumbs 1/4 c Onion minced 2 lg Tart apples
D;Brown beef, garlic and onion in olive oil. Stir in tomato sauce, tomatoes and
D;and scallions. Roll up or fold to enclose filling. Serve with salsa and sour
I;1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee crystals
I;1/3 cup unblanched (skins on) whole almonds
D;if the eyes had no tears.
I;1/2 cup water
I;3 tablespoons chopped green chiles
I;roasted pine nuts
D;1. Peel the cucumbers and slice into very thin rounds. Sprinkle with
D;little fresh nutmeg on top. Sprinkle with more Parmesan. Place pan 3
D;* Meringue powder is available in specially stores or wherever
I;Serve warm with Vanilla Custard Sauce or with soft-peaked whipped cream.
I;*2 cups.
I;1 1/2 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes or to taste
D;Filling:  In large bowl, beat cream cheese until soft, about 1 minute.
I;3/4 cup whole milk
I;2 lb Chinese broccoli (sometimes known as Chinese kale), ends of stems
D;Bring water to a boil. Add bouillon and stir. Add spinach and
D;I've been enjoying everyone's recipes and feeling guilty for not
I;1/4 cup red bell pepper, diced
D;days in the refrigerator (tightly wrapped). Despite the fact that this
D;and broth, and set aside.
D;Heat oven to 375 F. Lightly grease 12-cup fluted bundt pan. Place
I;1 (.7 ounce) package dry Italian-style salad dressing mix
D;Source: <http://www.omanhene.com/recipes/orangecheesecake.php>
D;sheets. Press a groove down center of each rope;
I;1/4 teaspoon Pepper
D;remaining 1/2 cup cheese. Bake at 350 degrees for 20 to
D;Bits of Brickle;
D;and drain off any excess oil. Spoon an equal   amount of the andouille
D;the fish.
D;-Spoon crab salad onto muffin halves. Place cheese over the crab and return
I;Smoked Spanish paprika; (garnish, see note)
D;Carbohydrates 29 g Total Sugars 14 g Dietary Fiber 5 g Protein 4 g
I;10 kalamata olives, pitted and chopped
D;the baking dish.
I;1 1/2 cups cooked butternut, acorn or cooked winter squash, cut in
I;2 tablespoons olive oil
D;Yield: 6 to 8 servings
I;corn tortillas
D;Beer Cheese Fondue
D;is cooked in.
I;1/2 cup shortening
D;Melt chocolate in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan
D;3-4
I;2 teaspoon bottled minced garlic or 4 cloves garlic, minced
I;3 Tablespoons minced onion  
D;to 350 F. Bake until bread is golden brown and sounds hollow when
D;from the coconut.
I;1 cup low-fat milk
D;Dietary Fiber: 4.26 g
D;Indian Pudding
I;3 8-oz. packages cream cheese, at room temperature
I;100% Broccoli Florets thawed
D;(Hasidic Caramelized Noodle Pudding)
I;1/2 tsp baking powder
D;FUNNEL CAKES
D;uses Callebaut semisweet chocolate for the cake and Guittard
I;1 pkg good seasons italian salad mix
D;processor. Pulse-process until the cheeses are well-blended. Add the
D;Serves 10.
I;2 Tablespoons grated parmesan cheese  
D;Beat eggs and milk together and pour over bread, sausage and cheese in baking
I;2 pounds cod or haddock, rinsed and dried
D;are moistened.
D;Cut the stem off the eggplant, prick it all over with a fork, and put
D;and sesame seed. Let rise in warm place until light and
D;2-inch
I;One 20-oz. can crushed pineapple in juice
I;2 cloves garlic, minced 
D;. Braised lamb improves in flavor when made 1 day ahead. Prepare
D;more water if beans become too dry.
D;1/2 cup wine and pour over top. Bake 350 degrees for an hour or until
D;Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper; cover and
D;eggs. Then whisk in the cream, milk, bourbon, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg and
D;keep refrigerated 1 day. Scrape off fat from surface of sauce. Transfer
D;25 minutes or until thoroughly heated. Sprinkle with
I;1 Tbsp Basil, Italian parsley or cilantro, minced
D;Source: Home Cookin' with Dave's Mom
I;1 tablespoon butter or
D;over pound cake or pumpkin bread, and garnished with whipped cream."
I;Or use pudding included cake mix & 3/4 cup of water.
I;salt and pepper to taste
D;Add the marrow bones, onions, parsnips, celery, 3/4 of the rutabaga,
D;For filling:
I;1/4 tsp. pepper
I;1/2 cup grated cheese (a combination of Parmesan, Romano, and Gruyere is
I;61/2 cups chicken stock or canned low-salt chicken broth
I;French Dressing With Chutney
I;with a little lemon juice)
I;1/2 cup whipping cream
I;1 package chopped dates
I;sliced black olives
D;Crock Pot Fish Stew A La Carolyn
D;until beef is no longer pink and vegetables are crisp-tender. Season with
I;sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
I;8 ounces crisp cooked bacon, drained and crumbled
I;Flat leaf parsley and fresh redcurrants to garnish
D;Makes 2 loaves.
I;3 tablespoons Butter or marg. melted
D;around the edge of the cake.  Press the hazelnut crumbs onto the icing 
D;Refrigeration Time: 4 hours
I;1 cup all-purpose flour plus additional for kneading and rolling
D;Tomato Aspic
D;softened, about 4 minutes.
I;2 tablespoons vegetable oil
D;3. Refrigerate 4 hours or longer before serving. Garnish with pecan halves
D;Marinated Mushrooms
D;frozen spinach into several smaller chunks (or let it thaw out
D;Return to oven and bake 12 to 14 minutes or until tortillas are lightly
I;1 tbs lemon juice
D;Black And White Cookies
D;Add potatoes and gently cook till just hot.  Garnish with bacon and
I;pinch garlic powder
I;3 1/2 cups chicken stock or canned broth
D;Sauce, if desired, and serve warm. Makes 12 servings. Bon Appetit January 2000
I;2 large carrots
D;salsa; mix well. Spoon over tortillas; sprinkle with
I;1 cn (10 3/4 oz) Condensed Cream of Mushroom Soup
D;readily
D;then add pork.
D;Dump the crumbs into a buttered 10-inch springform pan (available in
I;Black pepper, ground to taste
I;ziti
I;kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
I;Crust:
D;Add the eggs, one at a time, allowing them to blend in completely
I;1 1/2 pounds "meatloaf mix" of ground chuck, pork and veal
D;meatballs
I;grated rind of 1/2 orange
I;3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter or margarine, melted
I;1 can (15.25 ounces) Green Giant whole kernel corn, drained
I;2 ounces or 1/4 cup canned whole green chile peppers, drained and
I;1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
I;freshly ground black pepper, to taste
D;8 servings.
D;Categories : Crockpot Fish
D;underneath, and cook.
I;3/4 cup cooked ham -- finely diced
I;Italian parsley -- minced
D;ahead of baking and kept in a jar in the refrigerator. Shake well, and pour
I;24 oz salt
D;cooking experimentation?
I;1/4 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise
I;1           teaspoon  ground cinnamon
D;baking dish, but don't
I;6 tablespoons low fat sour cream
D;2. Add milk, salt and pepper.
I;1 T grated onion
D;airtight container and put in freezer to harden, at least 2 hours.
I;1 medium onion, chopped 
I;1 lemon wedge for garnish
D;-- and leave overnight and throughout the next day. (This thickens the
D;12-in. pizza pan coated with nonstick cooking spray; build up edges
I;1 medium size carrot, shredded
D;(Haskala in Yiddish). Others turned to Kabbalistic healers and miracle
I;3/4 c. catsup
I;1/2 cup chopped red sweet pepper
I;2 tablespoons chopped fresh
D;often.
D;sugar highs and nasty upset tummies!
D;all extra liquid.
D;with a kitchen towel before slicing. Repeat with each serving.
D;constantly until candy thermometer registers 160 F., about 5 minutes.
I;1 (15 ounce) can pineapple chunks in juice, undrained
I;1 large chicken quartered
D;Basic Chocolate Sauce (for valentines day)
D;qts.) Double recipe for 5-qt. crockpot.
I;1/3 cup granulated sugar
D;over this mix gently. Add cool whip, mixing gently.
I;3/4 cup celery finely chopped
D;Stir together beef, rice, water, onion, salt, and pepper. Spread out 1
I;Cooked rice of choice, if desired
D;* I used a 28 ounce can of Italian seasoned tomatoes, as I didn't have any
D;will come out clean, without any batter sticking to it.
D;Serves 12
D;with salt and pepper.
I;1/3 gallon cider, boiled down from 1 gallon fresh cider.
D;I made this put together meal one evening and it was so good we now serve
I;fine bread crumbs
D;out.
D;cool completely. Slice cake crosswise into 3 layers.
D;Canary Pudding
D;with a toothpick).
I;1-1/2 cups mik
D;round
D;eggs are set.
D;Beet Soup In Roasted Acorn Squash
D;combine. Transfer to a bowl, and fold in whipped cream. Pour mixture
I;2 cups hot water
I;1 botle (12 oz.) beer  (I like a heavy, dark beer for the flavor)
I;For stuffed cabbage
D;to form a soft dough. Turn onto  floured surface and knead until smooth.
D;side toward center, around top edge of cake. Place 1 fig slice atop
D;1 week.
I;1/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese
D;to wire rack. Cool completely. Prepare CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE, if desired. Drizzle
D;baking sheets with parchment.
D;Calamari Fritti e Zucchini
D;(Adding the flour and milk in stages will better balance the batter.) Add
D;bowl, mash yolks with fork. Stir in yogurt, onion, parsley, juice, mustard,
I;1 bay leaf salt and pepper to taste
D;with Parmesan. Bake, uncovered, for 15 to 20 minutes. Simple to prepare, this
D;Heat oven to 350 degrees.
I;The chicken stock: 
D;Notes: Four Sisters Inns
D;COMPANY CASSEROLE cp
D;without a seam.)
D;Baccala alla Vicentina
D;Stir in almonds; cook until mixture reaches 310
D;We call for English-style bitter orange marmalade (made with Seville
D;a toothpick in center. Slice and serve. Enjoy!!!
D;Active time: 50 min Start to finish: 3 hr
D;until the lentils are very soft. Add the salt and chili
D;Heat a griddle or skillet until hot.
D;Beef and Spinach Enchiladas
I;3 whole eggs
I;Anise Cookies
D;quiche, and it is SO flavorful. Be sure to drain off all of the butter/oil from
D;13-by-9-inch baking pan. Arrange chicken breasts in pan. Bake at 375
D;spicy!
I;a dash of bottled hot sauce
D;Marinated Avocado-Orange Salad
I;1/2 cup chopped celery
I;5      cups          chicken broth
I;1/2 cup Dry white wine
D;at room temperature 1 week.
I;1 teaspoon dried thyme
D;Prepare meatballs by combining the lean ground beef, minced onion,
I;carrots, applesauce & apricots)
I;40 (approx.) Champagne biscuits (crisp ladyfinger style cookies; from
D;30 minutes or so).
D;cookies.
I;3 medium carrots, chopped 
D;Old Magic 1
D;carb, 1g fibre, 108 mg chol, 307 mg sodium% RDI: 5% calcium, 12% iron,
D;each. Beat the mixture until light and fluffy.
D;Add olive oil and bring to boil again
I;3/4 teaspoon salt
I;Paprika to taste
D;a bowl. Spoon yogurt into strainer and let drain 15 minutes. Discard
D;it.s time to serve.
D;Mix together orange juice and ginger ale. Scoop sherbert and add to punch.
D;Alice Waters' Rainbow Tomato Pizza
I;peanut oil for sautéing
D;I think this recipe originally was from a Better Homes and Gardens
D;baking sheet.
D;the stuffing.
I;1/2 cup salad oil
D;Cook the lasagna noodles according to the package directions in boiling
D;barely lukewarm.
I;21 ounces  bittersweet chocolate -- such as Lindt
D;Heat oven to 350°F. Grease and flour 10-inch tube pan. Lightly
D;min. Add remaining ingredients except buns; cook for 5 min. Heat buns over small
I;1/2 cup of raw rice
D;salt and cook on a low heat for about half an hour stirring occasionally until
D;hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes.
I;1-2 tablespoons snipped cilantro or parsley
I;2 tbl butter
I;green onions ; chopped
D;hot or at room temperature.
I;3 large carrots 
D;juice; mix thoroughly. Sift flour, baking powder and salt
I;3 pounds pork boneless country
D;apricot glaze. Press praline powder onto glaze.
D;sugar dissolves. Pour the sauce over the linguine and toss to coat. Garnish with
D;(Don't stretch the dough, or it will simply shrink back when baked.) Trim
D;10 servings .
I;1 can cr. of mushroom soup
D;Stir together flour and salt. Cream butter; beat in
D;and simmer, covered, 1 1/2 hours.
D;spoonfuls of the lemon cream, ending with the cream. Garnish with citrus
D;2. Slice the onion very thin and mix with cucumbers. Add the salt,
D;15 to 20 minutes.
D;dissolved. Whisk yolks in a bowl until blended, then add 1/2 cup hot
I;4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 cup cooked winter squash, mashed
I;1 cup green pepper slices, cut into 2?inch lengths
D;Remove pork from the pan, stir fry the cabbage, carrots, mushrooms and
D;Pour into pie shell and sprinkle with grated nutmeg. Bake at 400º for 15
I;Freshly-ground black pepper -- to taste
I;pinch Salt
D;carefully to combine. Cover and cook on low
I;1 small green bell pepper, cut into thin strips
D;to make spreading consistency.
I;3 tbs flour
D;uncovered 1 hour. Discard bones. Refrigerate until cold, then cover and
D;Sift flour and next 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Whisk milk and
I;1 teaspoon olive oil
I;scallions - chopped
D;a blender or mixer will work.
D;racks.
D;I belong. I have a place.
D;Cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
D;heat until thoroughly cooked, stirring frequently. Drain.
I;Worcestershire sauce
I;1 Cl garlic -- mince
I;1/2 c Iced water
I;2 Tbsp curry powder (more/less to taste, depending on your brand)
I;3 tablespoons olive oil or cooking oil
D;over bottom and up sides of 9-inch springform pan.
I;3 medium carrots, peeled and sliced 1/4-inch thick
D;soup to a simmer. Stir in the Pecorino cheese and serve.
D;Linda
D;tender, about 2 1/2 hours longer. Remove from oven and let stand 20
D;sugar an water to 238 degrees F. (soft ball stage).
D;Directions
I;1 c Almonds; Blanched, Sliced
I;Grated Parmesan cheese, if desired
D;Heat oven to 325 F.
D;longer pink; drain. Add the remaining ingredients; bring
I;2 tsp Vanilla
D;(the duck should still be a bit too rare). Pour and skim off as much
D;onto the pan.
I;12 Brussels sprouts, trimmed, quartered lengthwise
I;olive oil)
D;add broccoli, decrease the ginger, etc.) as you like - this is a very
I;1/4 cup (60 ml) plus 1 tsp (5 ml) vegetable oil
D;dough roller to about 14" - 15" square. Cut into 4 equal parts. Place
D;and sauce bubbles, about 20 minutes.
D;Cabbage Soup
D;searing flour; pat off excess.
I;1 cup sifted plain stone ground course yellow corn meal
I;6 oz canned salmon
I;Few drops of gravy browning
I;Powdered sugar
D;until dissolved. Stop stirring and cook until dark brown but not
I;2 medium tart red and/or green apples, cored and chopped
I;1 stick unsalted butter
I;1/2 pounds peanut or vegetable  oil
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
I;juice of one lemon
D;tighter in a
D;your Ahi roll an instant bestseller!
D;seeds.
I;1 tablespoon salt 
I;2 large garlic cloves, chopped
D;Beef Braciola
I;1/2 cup sour cream
D;counter. This cooling routine will prevent the top from cracking. After
D;0-13-024894-0, by Betty Wedman, M.S.,R.D.
I;hand-crushed, reserving the juice
I;dressing:
I;6 Granny Smith apples - peeled, cored and chopped
D;Bacon Cheese Fingers
I;Salt and pepper to taste
I;2/3 cup finely ground cornmeal
I;dash of pepper
I;5 tbsp. chopped parsley
I;3/4 c. lowfat chocolate wafer cookies (about 10) ginger snaps work good to
I;1/2 cup bread crumbs 
D;Set aside.
D;Lean Meat 0 Fat
I;needed.
I;California Style Fish In Dipped Tortillas
D;Pour into hot sterilized jars. Leave 1/4-inch headspace. Seal.
D;minutes; cheesecake for 1 hour.
D;Sprinkle ribs with salt and pepper. Place in 3 1/2 to
D;<http://www.cnn.com/FOOD/specials/1999/hanukkah/lowfat/cheesecake.recipe.html>
D;shallot mixture. Add the orange and lemon zest and taste. Add more
I;1/2 fresh lime juice
I;Louis Dressing
I;Boiling, salted water
D;small bowl, mix the remaining 2 t. parsley, 2 t. basil, salt and red pepper
D;Chocolate Pecan Frosting:
D;Gently spread cream cheese filling over blueberries; sprinkle with
I;tsp seasoning salt
I;1/4 cup water
I;1 pork chop
D;Belgian Waffles
D;onion, bell pepper and celery. Add all cream of mushroom soup, celery
I;2 lb. sweet potato, peeled, cut into chunks
D;set aside. In a large bowl with mixer at high speed beat the next 3
I;4 egg yolks beated
D;mixture on toasted buns. Makes 5-6 servings.
D;hours. Stir occasionally.
D;yields 4 servings.
D;"Irish whisky is hard to mix with because it is unfailingly polite," says
D;the processor bowl.
D;24 hours. Before serving, mix well and add salt if desired.
I;1 1/2 cups oats, quick or old-fashioned, uncooked
D;Mix together sugar, oil, eggs, pumpkin, and vanilla in a large bowl. Combine dry
D;berries and bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until syrup thickens,
D;This is the best one I've ever found!  It's from the Los Angeles
I;1 cup Vanilla Ice Cream
D;Makes about 1 quart.
D;Increase heat to high./ boil tequila until reduced to 1 tbsp. add cream to
I;1 cup chopped nuts (pecans or walnuts)
D;swirling pan and brushing down sides with wet pastry brush, about 10
I;2 cup diced onions
I;1 c Butter;NO Margarine,Unsalted
I;11/2 cups freshly cut corn kernels (or substitute frozen)
D;I don't know if these are the same canoli as those you wanted, but they
D;Garnish with tomatoes.
I;Freshly ground pepper to taste
D;in pepper mixture.
D;Beter Homes and Gardens (1970)
D;transfer cake to platter. Cut 5 slices from orange. Cut each slice in
I;36 pecan or walnut halves
I;sour cream,
D;blend on medium-slow speed until completely blended and fluffy--about
I;1/2 cup parboiled rice, uncooked
I;1 (16 oz. can (2 cups) tomato sauce
D;with nutmeg.
D;desired, bake in 10-inch Bundt pan for about 1 hour.
I;Dough Mix:
I;Seasonal vegetables and salad to serve
I;Vanilla wafers
D;processor. Set aside 1 tablespoon garlic mixture; press remainder, 1/2
I;1 (2 to 3 pound) whole chicken, bones and skin removed, cut into pieces
D;sheet. Make depression, thump print, in center of each
I;Cake Ingredients:
D;loaf.
D;Make Crust:
D;add water until the gyozas are ~1/3 immersed (watch out, the pan will
D;Salad, on the other half of the bread build your meats and cheese.
I;generous 1/2 cup diced dried apricots
D;Makes 16 servings
I;1/4 cup tomato paste
I;2 cups whole milk
D;Publishing Company, Menlo Park, CA, 1990)
D;the seafood mixture into center, then garnish with thin avocado slices and
D;stirring often, about 40 minutes. Cool. Discard cloves.
D;flour.
D;moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then brown lamb in 5
D;In spite of what you've always heard about fruitcakes, my mother's
D;Note Any artifical sweetener liquid or powdered may be used as long as it is
I;Whipped Cream Frosting:
D;In large saucepan, cook bacon until brown, add onion and cook until
I;1 1/2 cups plus 3 tablespoons sugar
I;Corn chips
D;Take the pan off the heat and sprinkle with the coriander leaves.
D;Grease a 10-inch spring form pan. To prepare crust, in a medium bowl,
D;minutes. Makes 10 servings.
I;Cooking spray
D;Combine sugar and butter in a double boiler.  Beat eggs, add to the pan
D;Remove chicken, celery leaves and onion. Chop chicken to bite sized
I;1 1/2 to 2 cup cooked white-meat chicken, cubed or torn into bite-size
D;if too dry.) Taste for seasoning.
I;***CRUST***
I;Horseradish Sauce
I;1/3 cup crushed peppermint candies or candy canes
I;Dried hot red pepper flakes to taste
I;Frosting
I;Pinch salt, preferable gray salt
I;Blondies
D;Peel and cut avocado into chunks.
I;2 tablespoons Emeril's Southwest Essence or other Southwest seasoning
D;5 minutes or until liquid is reduced to 1 cup and prunes are plumped.
I;1/2 cup Finely-chopped carrot - ; 1 med carrot
D;mashing berries with back of fork, about 12 minutes. Pour into medium
I;2 pounds fresh broccoli, stems and florets separated and chopped into
D;vinegar. Garnish with the crostini.
I;2 Tbsp. sugar
I;2 tablespoons dendê oil***, optional
D;Use coupons offered during the holidays and you can get a large can for as
D;Society Press, $24.95)
D;minutes more. 
D;dipping sauce.
I;1-1/2 tablespoons sugar
I;1 small can ripe olives (slices)
D;two 10- by 2-inch round cake pans
D;Dulce De Leche Ice Cream Sundaes
I;Peeled and seeded pumpkin slices from the stock
D;brown other sides.
D;rind just until smooth; set aside.
D;on a wire rack.
D;excess.
I;6 large egg yolks
D;Combine all ingredients over ice in a glass.
I;1 tsp. lemon juice
D;any size you want. Cook them in the olive oil, garlic powder, and
D;Pumpkin Butterscotch Fudge Bars
D;Devil's Food Cake With Chocolate-Orange Buttercream
D;remaining 2 tablespoons ginger. Mix well.
I;salt and pepper
D;water until smooth. Cool until barely lukewarm but still pourable. Mix
I;1/2 Green pepper 1/2 tb Chopped parsley 1/2 Red pepper 1/2 ts Sea salt
D;Cook bacon in a large dutch oven and add cleaned veggies (carrots and
D;Marta requested a recipe using the crockpot. This should work, however, I
D;Dad's Buffalo Chicken Wings
I;2 1/2 c Chicken broth (to 3 cups)
I;6 large eggs
I;Softened butter, for serving
D;In blender container, combine all ingredients. Blend
D;Cut blondies into 1-inch squares. Arrange 5 squares in bottom of each
D;on top. Serves 6.
D;Tillamook Vintage White Cheese Fondue
I;3/4 teaspoon vanilla
D;Cinnamon Rock Candy
I;Enough vegetable oil to fill bottom of heavy skillet to 1/2"
I;Oil to grease pot
I;4 ea Carrots; large 1 tb Butter 1 c Dark beer; any brand 1/4 ts Salt
D;beneath the chicken to catch the
D;Broiled  Salmon  With  Tarragon  Butter
I;1 pt. hot water
D;While the tenderloins roast, combine the preserves, Worcestershire
D;Coffee-Caramel Sauce over ice cream in each glass. Top with whipped
I;6 tablespoons of mayonniase (regular mayo is best not fat free and not
D;chicken and boil the remaining sauce uncovered until it has thickened
D;stir briefly leaving a lumpy dough
I;3/4 cup granulated sugar
D;Baked Acorn Squash
I;1 cup cold water
D;Add onion to Dutch oven; cook and stir 5 minutes or until tender.
D;Bake 8 minutes. Reduce heat to 250 degrees F. Bake 1 hour and 15
D;a few more spoonfuls of milk.
D;chocolate begins to soften slightly, about 1 minute (time will vary
D;3/4 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Place Boboli on baking sheet.
D;fresh herbs.
D;strips, like carrots."
D;Allow to cool
D;You can also cook this in the crock pot.
D;mashed potatoes.).
I;2 cups spinach, chopped 
I;(1 package wide egg noodles,cooked, drained (16 oz.) Add extra pts.
D;15-20
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;sour cream (optional)
D;dark milk chocolate and orange cream cheese batter. This is a great
I;1 Tbsp. oil
D;Slice the bread horizontally in half. Put a small amount of the oil from our
D;For cake: Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 F. Line
D;the other ingredients with the water. Stir
I;1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
I;1/8 teaspoon pepper
I;1 single cinnamon to taste
I;oil
I;1/4           cup  sugar
D;well, about 8 minutes. Transfer bones to bowl. Add veal to pot. Brown
D;into prepared baking pan. When cool, break up
D;pour remaining liquid over linquini. Toss thoroughly and then put
I;Have Ready:
D;according to manufacturer's directions. When waffle is done, use a fork
I;Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
D;traditional. Place each loaf in a buttered 9x5x3-inch loaf pan and
I;2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
I;6 large carrots, peeled, cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces
D;Recipe from Calorie Controlled Dishes
D;Adjust one rack to center of oven and one rack to position below
D;with non-stick pan spray.
D;1 hour: Slice into 1/2 inch pieces.
D;In a large pot of boiling water, add the escarole or spinach and
I;Klauson Whole Pickles
I;Punch:
I;1 3/4 cups flour (white, whole wheat, or a combination)
D;In a kettle cover carrots with salted water by 2 inches and boil,
D;Idaho Chowder
I;6 tablespoons baking cocoa
I;Crab
I;1 Can Puree Sauce -- Thick
D;eastern European Jewish background, you can simply leave the coriander
I;All-purpose flour, as needed
I;1 tomato -- diced
I;1/4 cup finely chopped onion
I;Water for blending only (not too much, approx. 1/2 cup)
D;of red pepper.
I;frozen chopped, thawed and squeezed dry
I;1/3 cup Light cream (half-n-half)
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place potato on foil. Layer carrots and onion over
I;1/2 cup peanut butter (this is a rough estimate)
D;for up to 5 days.
I;buttermilk biscuits
I;3 large English muffins,
D;melted and mixture is smooth when stirred.
D;cook for 2 minutes or until tender. Add garlic, peppers, potatoes, salt and
D;Although labor intensive, the results are worth the work. If asparagus
I;1       cup            Milk
I;1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
I;Almond or peanut oil to  stir fry, a few Tbs.
D;Place all ingredients except eggs in crockpot, stir thoroughly, cover and cook
D;and good.
D;Bake at 325 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.
I;Salt & pepper
D;40-degrees F.
D;Heat oven to 400 degrees. Seperate biscuits. Place in
I;onions.
I;Mandarin Orange Topping:
I;1 T. sugar
D;In a large pot of boiling water, add 2 heads of
I;2 cups (4 ounces) miniature marshmallows
D;wedges. Place in a large bowl.
I;Chopped scallions for garnish
I;Serving Size : 4 Preparation Time :0:20
I;2 (15-ounce) cans stewed tomatoes
I;Kitchen Bouquet; as needed
D;yellow and slightly thickened, about 4 minutes. Beat in 2/3 cup warm
D;lightly cook the onion until
I;2/3 cup Parmesan cheese
D;Keep hot, but do not allow to
D;Recipe By :
D;Makes enough to feed 4-6. Approximate cost per serving - $1.23
D;Source: Southern Living
I;white pepper
I;1 pound thin noodles or vermicelli
D;Additional powdered sugar
D;until chilled.
D;pieces. Reserve broth.
I;16 oz. fresh or ready made guacamole (2 - 3 avocados)
I;6 oz. canned, jumbo lump or backfin crab, drained
I;dash of celery salt
D;minutes until done.
I;300 g sweet peppers
D;floured 9" round cake pans. Bake at 350 F degrees for 20-25 minutes or until 
D;and sides of cake, swirling decoratively. Mound chocolate curls in
I;5 pounds stew beef cut into 1 1/2" cubes
D;not dry. Gently fold into macaroni mixture. Pour
I;Cheez Whiz (med. or lg. jar)
D;A rotisserie chicken stands in quite well for the original tandoori
I;1/2 tsp. leaf basil
D;serving. Refrigerate leftovers.
I;vinegar
D;mouth).
D;temperature. It can be made up to 5 days ahead and chilled. Bring to
D;the pan, cut the pie into slices, and top each slice with whipped
D;2 additions). Stir in apricots. Spoon half of batter into prepared pan.
D;sealing edges well.
I;6 ounces sharp process American
D;halved onion slices around the edges of 6 individual plates. Spoon some of
D;prepared pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 20 minutes, stirring after 10 minutes.
D;of the water-bath, and let it cool on a wire rack. Cover the cake with
I;1 t salt
I;8-10 slices bacon, crispy cooked and crumbled
I;1 c Brown sugar
I;Salt and black pepper -- to taste
D;savory waffles.
I;4 dried apricot halves or 2 dried peach halves, finely snipped
D;cooking spray.
D;Categories : Seafood Crockpot
D;Another simple way of making delicious Belgian Chocolates...
D;salt, if desired, Worcestershire, pepper and paprika until well blended. With
I;salt & pepper
D;I got the idea for this recipe in 1970 from a book named You Are All
I;3/4 cup packed brown sugar
D;and much of it will fall off as you press it on the sides).  Chill the 
I;Marinade
D;Combine sugar and water in small saucepan. Stir over low heat until
D;Smoky Apple Butter Ribs
I;1 cup Water, boiling
D;Makes about 2 cups.
I;Bouquet garni: thyme, parsley, and bay
D;When done, the pudding will be golden brown, and a silver knife inserted
I;soy sauce
I;Barbecue Sauce:
I;3 pounds yams, peeled, cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces
D;basting occasionally with pan juices.
I;undrained
I;20 filo pastry leaves (buy frozen and thaw before using)
I;few sprigs of fresh thyme or
I;1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1/2 tsp. salt
I;peppercorns in a cheesecloth sack
D;Cover last sheet with apricot mixture
I;dash soy sauce
I;Melted butter, as needed
D;powder, sparingly, to taste. Chop the coriander and
I;crushed lump sugar --cubes
D;Bake in centre of 350°F (180°C) oven for about 1-1/4 hours or until edge
D;Sweet Potato Stuffed Squash
I;Sea salt, to taste
I;1 cup sliced dates
D;-Serve topped with whipped cream.
I;1 pint blueberries
D;at 350° for 1 hour. Makes 8 servings.
I;1 1/4 cups butter, softened
I;2 teaspoons baking soda
D;another
D;and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake while preparing chocolate bands.
I;4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
D;(5-6 hours). Unmold on a serving plate and chill a short time.
D;with a sprig of cilantro.
D;deflate.)
I;dash hot sauce
D;hours, or until the meat is tender enough to be cut with a fork. At the end
D;Chapter The National Cattlemen's Beef Association
D;Cook pasta; drain.
I;1/4 cup CRISCO all-vegetable shortening or 1/4 CRISCO Stick
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter a 10- to 12-cup Bundt pan; dust with
D;13x9-inch
D;Peachy Pork Tenderloin
D;4 tablespoons of soy sauce. Mix well. Boil the spaghetti and drain. Toss
I;3 large Ancho chilies, diced *
D;stirring constantly, about 1 minute. Cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead.
D;For chocolate sauce:
D;Small Steaks with Roquefort
D;Cut chicken into approximately 1 inch cubes.
D;Put it all together: Bring stock to a boil; add chopped escarole, 1
D;Nutrional Analysis Per Serving
I;Herb Salad:
I;1 lb extra lean ground beef
D;egg yolk and vanilla and
I;Juice of 1 small lemon
D;bake for 25 minutes
I;Dash of Worcestershire sauce
D;liquid (about 15 minutes).
I;1 cup slivered blanched almonds (4 1/2 oz)
D;Cooking Time 1 1/4 hours
D;floss.
D;from fat); 27g Protein; 8g Carbohydrate; 1g Dietary Fiber; 176mg
D;perfectly smooth. Scrape bowl and beaters frequently throughout mixing
D;ingredients; beat with rotary or electric beater. Pour over vegetables;
I;1 liter seltzer water, chilled
D;for 1 1/2 hours at 350 .
I;1-6 oz. can frozen orange juice
D;Lay out six 12 x 12-inch aluminum foil squares and divide sprout mixture
I;1 teaspoon dried basil leaves, crushed
D;heat
D;slowly over low-medium heat 3-4 minutes, turning as they become brown and
I;1 med. onion chopped and cooked (in another pan) till golden
D;The best way to slice a cheesecake is with unflavored, unwaxed dental
I;1/3 tsp celery salt
D;Add acini de pepe and cook until tender. Remove from heat. Slowly
D;for rolls and 40 to 45 minutes for loaves.
D;Pumpkin Bread
D;Roquefort paste on the cooked side. Return to skillet. Cover and pan broil
D;surface. Set aside for 10 minutes to soften.
I;sliced dill pickles
I;1 (8-ounce) package shredded cabbage and carrots
I;3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
D;Per Serving (excluding unknown items): 479 Calories; 37g Fat (70.4% calories
I;butter or margarine, melted
I;According to FitDay.com, 1 serving has:
I;Pudding:
D;which go very well with the gravylike tomato sauce the stuffed cabbage
D;Drizzle melted chocolate over top of cake.
I;to taste
I;heavy cream, optional
I;3/4 cup sour cream
D;finish cooling.
D;pepper the outside of the
D;Stir often until the water has cooked off, then continue to stir until 
I;25 servings
D;they tend to break apart as they become tender).
I;1/4  cup shortening
D;add
D;Do not unroll. Coat each section with sesame seeds. Slice
I;1 lb. ground beef
I;1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
D;In fondue pot or heavy saucepan heat soup, mustard and onion. Turn heat
D;Spoon beef mixture evenly over top of each tortilla; top with an equal
I;1 cup whole blanched almonds or 1 1/3 cups slivered almonds
D;metal mallet. Sprinkle both sides of cady with confectoners' sugar.
D;a couple tablespoons of crushed garlic (or as much as you like!)
I;1 c. peas
I;Pepper 
D;broiler until lightly browned,a bout 5 minutes. Serve bean
D;sprigs
D;or food processor. Add to the soup. Add the red wine,
I;Onion to taste
D;at once. Stir just until combined but still slightly lumpy. Gently fold
D;10 minutes, or until smooth
I;1 t. vanilla
I;1 6-ounce package dried apricots
D;Bake cakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 30
D;Capellini con Pomodori Balsamico
D;20 minutes. Add sausage and cook an additional 5 minutes. Remove bay
D;CHO 1, PRO 1, FAT 1, Cal 15, Na 7
D;dry fruit except for the raisins. In a small bowl combine the honey, vanilla
D;a spoon or a rubber spatula, stir from the bottom of the bowl
D;Norman's Puffed Pastry Chicken
D;2. Serve over omelet.
I;Ritz Cracker Crumbs
D;to even out the batter.  Bake in a preheated 350F oven for 15 minutes or 
D;Place a rack in the bottom of the casserole. Place meat on the rack and
I;Antipasto Salad
D;combined. Spoon about 1/3 cup of beef mixture down center
I;1/2 cup 100% Pure Pumpkin
I;Cooked whole grains (optional)
D;Bocconcini di Pollo con Pecorino Siciliano
D;LR FROM NOTTINGHAM ENGLAND
I;rinsed, drained & picked over
D;until thickened.
I;1 cup oil
D;kitchen towel. Repeat with remaining squares, then make more dumplings
D;coconut milk.
D;with confectioners sugar.
D;Add shrimp for the last hour of cooking. Serve over hot rice.
D;pepper and cook over medium heat, stirring with wooden spoon for 1 to 2
I;salt, black, and hot pepper to taste
D;7 g Saturated Fat 2 g Protein 25 g Total Carbohydrate 14 g Dietary Fiber 2
I;Hot pepper sauce, to taste (optional)
I;1 cup grated Mozzarella or Monterey Jack cheese
I;1/2 cup sliced almonds with skins (4 1/2 oz), toasted and cooled
D;peaks. Pour luke warm melted chocolate over egg mixture and fold
D;Fry cubed potatoes in hot oil in a wok until lightly browned.
D;cubes.
D;1/2 cups acini de pepe, and 3 eggs (slightly beaten) combined with 1
D;15-20 min.
I;Zest (grated peel) of one orange
I;bite sized strips
I;with 1 can drained
I;1/4 cup soy sauce, or to taste
I;crumbled into small pieces
I;2 garlic cloves, finely minced
I;1/3 cup grated Asiago or Romano cheese
D;cook, stirring, 1 minute. Add 1 cup water and deglaze skillet by
D;filling.
I;1      cup           elbow or medium shell macaroni
I;1 teaspoon paprika
I;1/2 pound extra lean ground beef
D;milk, vanilla and 1 egg.  Pour into a well-greased 9" springform pan (or 
D;remaining egg to glaze.
D;that the cake stands upright on the serving plate. Sprinkle with
D;Mix everything with cracked ice in a shaker. Strain
I;Cut Leaf Spinach
D;burning). Set aside.
I;Apricots, pecans and nutmeg help form the delicious "topping" in
D;Variation: You may substitute a chopped beef patty for pork chop.
I;square cubes
I;2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
D;time, mixing until dough holds together. Shape into a ball.
I;1 cup cake flour
D;Combine the ground meat, bread crumbs, egg, parsley, salt and
I;2 teaspoons seasoned (packaged) dry bread crumbs
D;days.
D;shrimp turns pink and scallops are opaque. Drain and rinse under cool water
D;. Ice cream keeps 1 week.
D;onions and olives.
D;place a pan over medium high heat. Stir in the garlic, sugar, oil, vinegar, soy
I;Confectioners sugar
D;boil until spinach is thawed. Add meatballs and bring back to boil.
I;2 carrots -- sliced
I;1 pound salmon fillets
D;spread, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes.
D;mixture boils. Reduce heat to low, cover and cook for 45 to 60 minutes or
I;bread)
D;lightly with salt. Cook, stirring and turning the meat until the lamb is
D;Chicken Soup With Loads Of Vegetables
I;20 wings
D;slices in egg mixture until saturated. Whisk egg whites until frothy. Dip soaked
D;Vegas. This will be worth the extra work you put into it!
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Bake veal covered until heated, about 35
D;Add sprouts; mix lightly.
I;8 small turnips
I;loin or sirloin strip)
I;1/3 cup (80 ml) milk (whole milk for best results)
D;minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Spoon sauce over veal.
I;2 Carrots, peeled and diced
D;Brown lightly in hot shortening. Place patties in 10
D;Cool in pans 10 minutes. Remove; cool on racks. Frost.
D;531mg Sodium. Exchanges: 0 Grain(Starch); 0 Lean Meat; 12 Fat.
D;in cocoa mixture. Gradually add remaining 3 2/3 cups powdered sugar and
D;Baby Greens with Grilled Turkey, Cranberries and Roasted Shallot
D;1/4 cup butter, remaining oregano and parsley. Arrange the pounded
D;The meatballs: 
D;Cool and bone chicken; set aside meat and broth.
I;2 lb beef stew meat, cut in 1 1/2" cubes1 lrg onion, chopped
D;Honey Roasted Ham Biscuits
D;one minute; turn and fry about 1/2 minute. Drain. Sprinkle with
I;1/3 lb sliced Genoa salami, (not so thin cut), chopped with knife
I;50 ml (3 tablespoons) margarine or butter, melted
D;pepper. Cover both sides with fresh rosemary sprigs and/or dried rosemary.
I;1/2 cup dark raisins
I;1/2 lbs Medium shrimp, peel, devein
D;Shrimp Cheese Fondue
I;-1/4 Pound Genoa Salami
I;Parmesan cheese to sprinkle
D;minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Cut around pan sides.
I;Roast,peel, seed, devein, and chop chiles to measure
D;Slice and serve.
I;1 1/2 cups flour
I;1/3 cup butter, melted
I;1/2 tsp pepper
D;the tomatoes, molasses, honey, tomato paste, garlic, bay leaves, cumin,
I;1 1/2 hour or until the top of the cake is quite dark and a thin skewer
D;melted, pour in eggs and tilt pan to spread evenly. Sprinkle parsley over
D;cinnamon until ingredients are evenly moistened.  Press crumb mixture
D;is set. To unmold, wrap a hot towel around sides of pan to help release 
D;carefully, as they cook rather quickly.  Combine all the ingredients for
I;2 (8 oz.) tubs guacamole dip OR 1 1/2 cups fresh guacamole
D;Baba Ghanoush is a Middle Eastern and North African Dip made with
I;1/4 cup grated Pecorino Romano cheese 
I;31/2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
D;layers
D;140 to 145 degrees F, about 3 to 4 hours. Remove the meat from the
I;GINGER SYRUP:
D;Server warm with vanilla ice cream. Serves 4.
D;Add yams and carrots to pot. Cover and cook until brisket is very
I;1/2 cup catsup
D;dill, and the salt and pepper. Cover and simmer of 2 1/2 hours,
D;the soup.
I;1 medium tomato -- seeded and chopped
D;1. Beat eggs until light and fluffy.
D;pan. In bowl, combine ham, honey mustard and 2 tablespoons
D;pastry into the pan. Trim and flute the edges and prick the crust all over
I;Streusel:
D;heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Pour half
I;Ground black pepper to taste
D;wilting and slow cooking. Try serving this dish with mashed potatoes,
I;Preparation:
I;8 ounces penne, freshly cooked
D;Chicken Avocado Salad
I;1 1/2 pounds red potatoes, scrubbed and quartered
D;and eggs. Work mixture with your hands or a spoon until well blended.
I;half teaspoon white pepper
D;Alligator Balls
D;processor bowl. Process for about 3 minutes or until completely smooth,
D;and egg yolk. Add buttermilk-cocoa mixture; beat to blend. Beat in
D;a few friends were at the grocery store looking for grub for that night at
I;Cream Cheese Layer
D;know, are half the battle.
I;membrane or fat
D;Heat coffee, whiskey, butter, and remaining cup cocoa powder in a
D;Notes:
I;Jalapeno pepper jelly, melted
D;to lift it off the grid. Keep warm. Repeat with remaining batter. (If
I;2 cups lard
D;CORNED BEEF BAKE
D;a quivering lightness is deemed worthy of being presented to a
D;Broccoletti alla Romana
D;juice, eggs and yogurt; stir well with whisk. Add to flour mixture, stirring
D;Put potatoes, celery, onion and boiling water in cooker.
I;2 medium heads escarole or 1 or 2 bunches spinach, cleaned and chopped
D;cool for 5 minutes before serving.
D;Drain.
D;additions. Transfer batter to pan.
D;Add chayotes, stock, wine and half of dill. Bring to a boil; cover, reduce
D;(http://www.topsecretrecipes.com)
D;degrees F. or until syrup carmelizes. Pour syrup
D;350 degrees for 2 hours or until the pumpkin is soft. Your stuffed
D;This recipe is a good source of Calcium
I;1/4 Teaspoon baking powder
D;While carrots are cooking, cook honey, butter, and gingerroot over
D;Orange Punch
D;Chayote and Pork Rollups
D;mousse over. Top with second cake layer. Brush with 3 tablespoons
I;2 Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored and thinly sliced
D;but it all works out.
I;Coriander Sauce:
D;combine.  Whisk lime juice and zest, olive oil, and cilantro in small
D;Main Dishes
D;Orange Cookies
D;pan about 8x8x2". Line the pan with waxed paper and film this with
I;APRIC OT GLAZE
I;4 parsnips, peeled and left whole
I;1 lb Marinated alligator fillet cut into small pieces
D;*Reynolds kitchens tip: the easy way to make drainage holes in the
D;1/2 Lean Meat; 1 Vegetable; 3 Fat; 1 1/2 Other Carbohydrates.
D;For a complete meal, add a salad on the side.
I;Saffron (a Spanish colored spice)
D;Combine first 3 ingredients in heavy saucepan; cook over medium heat, stirring 
I;4 bone-pork chops, 1/2 - 3/4 inch thick, about 1 1/2 pounds
I;4 ounces cream cheese cut
D;espresso dissolves. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over
I;or dehydrated mashed potato flakes (or more if needed)
I;2 medium tomatoes, sliced
I;1 can asparagus stalks
I;1 clove garlic, mashed and chopped
I;3 cup beet juice (made from cooking cleaned and peeled sliced beets in water)
I;filling
D;Serving Size : 4 Preparation Time :0:00
I;fish sauce
I;Bitterweet chocolate curls
D;Red Beans With Rice
D;Spoon the noodle mixture into the prepared baking dish. Bake until
D;-----------
D;until chocolate melts. Remove from heat; add powdered sugar, mixing well. Set 
D;-While muffins are toasting, mix mayonnaise, water, Old Bay seasoning and
D;My Cabbage Soup
I;Fresh cilantro (optional)
I;1/4 cup sugar
I;2 quarts chopped red?skinned apples (skins left on)
I;1/4 cup Fresh cilantro, minced
D;CHRISTMAS BUTTER COOKIES
I;this tastes soooo good..  the glaze forms an unbelievable crust around
I;1 oz Drambuie
D;Ice Cream Truffles
D;cool quickly.
D;Immerse whole heads of cabbage, 1 at a time if necessary, in a large
D;cream or warm over vanilla ice cream.
D;Grease 9-inch (2.5 mL) springform pan; set aside.
I;2 lbs. steak, 1/2" thick (use any small thin cuts)
D;salt, salt, and lemon juice. Sprinkle ground peanuts
I;1 teaspoon salt (optional)
I;6 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
D;escarole which has been cleaned and chopped. Blanch for 3 minutes to
D;Cooking Time 10 minutes
D;Make Figs:
D;Crust:  In large bowl, stir together crumbs, sugar, melted butter and
D;Bombay Potatoes
D;container. Yield: 3-1/2 cups.
D;slices, if desired.
D;Yield: 2 servings
I;Rhubarb and apple mixture
I;1/4 cup sliced scallions
D;fingertips, lift strips and place on clean foil-lined baking sheet.
I;1/2 cup chopped green onion
I;1/2 cup packed brown sugar
I;1 cup all-purpose flour
D;add pod. Puree banana in a food processor, then whisk into cream
I;For Syrup:
I;2 cups boiling water
D;1. Heat oven to 375°F. Remove wrappers from chocolate pieces.
I;18 oz (1 cn) Tomato Juice
I;sea salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
I;1 large onion (1 lb), halved and thinly sliced crosswise
I;1/4 cup Grated Romano cheese 
I;extra virgin olive oil for topping off
D;until set. Cool in oven with door propped open 30 minutes.
D;mixture thickens and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are
I;Herbs of choice as Dill Weed (optional)
I;1 2 ounce jar diced pimientos
I;Sauce
I;1 pound lean ground beef 
D;Brilliant on a cheesecake
D;oregano and salt into beef.
I;1 teaspoons regular or grainy Dijon mustard
D;casserole. Cover both pans with a single large sheet of foil. Bake for 1 hour.
I;1 1/2 teaspoons Shao Hsing rice wine or dry sherry
I;4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
D;Press apple wedges partly into batter.
D;) is available for sale at this
I;1 can whole kernel corn (drained)
D;Requested jelly made from fruit juice
I;submitted by rcoen
D;Bring milk just to a boil in a 1 1/2- to 2-quart heavy saucepan. Whisk
I;Dressing for steak
D;yogurt into pudding. Divide one-third of the mixture among 6 parfait glasses.
D;until firm. Turn out onto plate. Remove plastic and serve as a spread
D;Add the raisins and cool.
D;the tomatoes are pulped. Combine this with the cooked chick peas and serve
I;1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
I;1/4 cup sweetened dried cranberries, if desired.
I;1 c Raw Mushroom Slices
I;Dash Tabasco sauce
D;For frosting: Stir espresso powder and vanilla in small bowl until
I;1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil
I;Calamari Fritto
D;teaspoon of dried basil. Shape into 3/4 inch balls. Drop into boiling
D;with ribs. Makes 4 servings.
D;hand-held (or regular, I find the Betty Crocker hand-held deal works
I;8 ounces lean ground beef or mixture of lean ground beef, pork and
D;Yield: 8 servings
I;Pancake recipe
D;Makes 12 servings.
I;3 1/2 cups cake or pastry flour
I;5 cups whipping cream
D;bay leaves. Season sauce with salt. Set aside to cool. You will have about 6
D;Owner of Creative Cutie Recipes.
D;and mix thoroughly.
I;1 4.5 ounce can Old El Paso
I;For the Stir-Fry:
I;1 egg
I;1/2 t. kosher salt
I;2 cups diced cooked chicken
I;http://uk.360.yahoo.com/advert_man_2006
D;*you may add any other kinds of canned vegetables you
D;Special equipment: an instant-read thermometer; an ice cream maker
D;this in your plan.
D;enough to handle trim off and discard the fat. Shred the meat coarsely with
I;1 tablespoon cooking oil
I;Lime slices; optional
D;each cut. Cheesecake freezes well, too, if you can keep friends and
D;a moderate heat. While it is cooking wash and grate the beetroots. Add
I;1 c sour cream
D;This old-fashioned chocolate cake made our staff swoon! Chef Ed Kasky
I;2 8-ounce firm but ripe pears, peeled, halved, cored, each half cut
I;Ingredients for making sponge cake:
D;a 2 quart baking dish. In a small bowl, beat the eggs well. Stir in the cream
D;Cool the cake for at least 20 minutes in the pan. Once the cake has
I;1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
D;2 Fat, 47 Na, 49 K, 11 chol
I;Lemon slices
D;all surfaces are well-coated. Cover the bowl tightly and refrigerate.
I;2 cups heavy cream
D;tortillas.
I;1      teaspoon      garlic powder
I;-filling-
D;NOTES
D;serving, toss tomato with seafood mixture if desired. Arrange halved onion
I;1 small onion, thinly sliced, separated into rings
D;bean before using.)
D;parchment paper.
I;A few weeks ahead of time, prepare fermented beetroot juice, as follows:
D;Combine the vinegar, soy sauce, worchester, Tabasco, oil, sugar and
D;1 minute. Stir until chocolate is completely melted. Add powdered
D;Heat oven to 350. In a large pan, over medium high heat, bring 3 cups of the
D;coated.
D;Combine with remaining ingredients. Roll dough to 1/2" squares. Place small
D;mold; add enough water to fill. Freeze until firm.
D;4 (3/4) cups servings.
D;5 more minutes. Add snapper, soaked rice with water, stock, salt
I;1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
D;Sugar-Coated Pecans
I;1 pkt dried avocado leaves - (2 lbs)*
I;Bourbon BBQ Sauce -- recipe follows
D;Nutrition facts per serving: 254 calories, 12 g total fat, 3 g saturated
D;ginny
D;Albóndigas con Picada de Almendra (Meatballs in Almond Sauce)
D;with remaining dough and filling.
D;Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. If you are using a dark pan, preheat to 300
D;sugar dissolves. Increase heat and bring to boil. Remove from heat. Mix
D;opening, hold finer over end of funnel spout and pour about 4 Tbs. of
D;least 3 hours and up to 1 day.
D;Place chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water; stir
I;12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter -- at room temperature
I;2/3 cup sour cream
I;(optional)
D;Stir in green beans, garlic, stock, tomato juice,
D;and cool.
I;225 g / 8oz tinned crushed pineapple, semi-drained
D;hold in hand. Working over foil-lined sheet, pull vegetable peeler
D;In small bowl, combine candied sauce mix, butter, cinnamon
D;well. Cover and chill until cold.
D;oven (325F) for 1 hour or until set. Serve
I;Salt and pepper
I;peperoncini
D;Heat oven to 400ºF. Brown ground beef and onion in skillet over medium
D;stringy fibers. Arrange squash halves, cut side down, in
I;1/2 cup dry red wine
D;Transfer batter to prepared dishes, filling to top and dividing
I;4 stalks celery, chopped 
D;crumble beef as it cooks .
I;onion rings, thinly sliced, optional garnish
I;5 ounces sweet butter (1 stick plus 2 tablespoons )
I;1 large (16 ounces) Boboli
D;From BHG Make Ahead Cookbook
D;Combine the pork, garlic, and water in a large saucepan; bring to a boil
D;top of salmon.
D;Preheat oven to 375°F. Butter 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish. Heat oil
D;together; cook in salted boiling water for 15 min. Place in colander; rinse
D;Just before serving, reheat the soup. Bring to a boil. Cut the
D;a large bowl. Toss well; then mix in the chilled dressing.
D;Chocolate Whiskey Bundt Cake
I;Freshly-ground white pepper; to taste
D;* Egg yolks must be beaten into the cake one at a
I;2 cups chopped, canned pear tomatoes with their juice
I;1 ts Sugar
I;1/2 cup chopped green sweet pepper
I;1 lb ground chuck (preferably not lean)
D;until you have a 12-inch round. Fold the dough in half and ease it into a
D;is pale golden. If the pastry starts to puff up, press the bottom gently
I;1-1/2 - 2 lbs. veal (scallopini sliced)
I;1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
I;Brine:
I;Sourdough Starter
I;Caramel (melted)
D;nutmeg, cardamom, white pepper, and a pinch of salt in a 2- to 3-quart
D;DIRECTIONS:
D;Combine cream and Irish cream liqueur in medium bowl; beat to stiff
I;1 can (8.25 ounces) mandarin oranges, drained and patted dry
I;1/2 cup seasoned packaged breadcrumbs
I;1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
D;. Florentine cookies (brushed with chocolate but not filled with ice
D;spread fruits, coconut and nuts on bottom of 9-by-13-inch cake pan. Cover
I;Bourbon Sauce:
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding01.html
I;1 lg. onion, chopped
D;for this recipe.
I;1 1/4 pound rock shrimp or peeled white shrimp
I;additional apple slices, optional
I;3 garlic cloves, finely chopped
I;2 tablespoons butter or margarine
I;Stalk Celery, chopped
D;Mahon Cheese Ice Cream
D;heavy medium saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool
D;Beet And Orange Salad With Orange-Chive Vinaigrette - Serves 6
I;1 cup dry bread crumbs
D;the larger pan and place it on the oven rack. Pour boiling water into
D;cool 10 minutes on sheet, remove. Fill centers with
I;1/4 teaspoons chopped dill (or herb of choice)
I;Fried Onions
D;Hasidism and, within a generation, the bulk of the Jews in central
I;7 tablespoons (or more) water
D;3 minutes per side. Transfer to a cutting board; set aside.
I;Fresh raspberries (optional)
D;chill until very cold, about 4 hours.
I;1 packages demi-glace mix or Knorr Classic Brown Gravy Mix
D;to 30 minutes, until done. Don't overbake.
D;golden brown and crispy - about 1 hour for the baking dish, about 1
I;2 celery ribs, diced
D;to stop cooking. Put shrimp and scallops into a plastic bag, then set bag in
I;2 cups Chicken broth
I;1/4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
D;9-inch-square section of a cookie sheet.
D;Yield 24 servings.
D;Line baking sheet with foil. Unwrap 1 square of chocolate. Place
D;paprika generously on top.
I;Pinch salt
D;Yields 4 servings.
I;Garnish: fresh dill sprigs
I;1/2 teaspoon of mustard powder or 1/2 teaspoon prepared Dijon or deli
I;15-ounce can (2 cups) pumpkin puree
I;1 rutabaga, peeled and quartered
I;For sauce
I;-1/4 Pound Swiss Cheese
I;4 T. butter
D;without spinach and cool, uncovered, then chill, covered. Remove any
D;and simmer, stirring, until melted, about 1 minute. Remove from heat
I;4 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
D;Bring milk, basil, 1/4 cup sugar, and a pinch of salt to a boil in a
D;This is a truly great recipe, our church uses it for annual Seder meal.
D;Heat oil in a sauté pan or skillet; when oil is hot, add meatballs and cook
D;salt to taste.
D;2 fat exch.
D;Almond Amaretto Bread Pudding
D;Today, I will respect my body and my
I;non-stick cooking spray
I;For the makhani sauce
I;Optional: 1/2 to 3/4 c. fresh
I;   washed and trimmed
D;chicken and spinach.
D;Transfer shrimp to bowl using slotted spoon.
I;1 bag (9 oz.) HERSHEY'S Kisses® or Kisses® WITH ALMONDS Milk Chocolates
D;. "The texture you should be trying to achieve is not that of a rich,
D;In a large saucepan, cook beef over medium heat until no
I;3 1/2 cups water
D;process until moist crumbs form. Press crumbs onto bottom and halfway
I;Pastry for single crust, unbaked*
D;This is from my mothers recipes, and I believe it was from the Bakers
D;Cook onion in oil in a 12-inch deep heavy skillet over moderate heat,
D;of cooking there should be just enough sauce to coat the meat. If too much
I;3 pkgs. cherry Kool-Aid
D;a bowl. In another bowl, beat butter and sugar with a mixer until
D;well blended.
I;1 teaspoon Salt
I;1/2 cup sugar
D;16 minutes or until golden brown. Serve warm. Makes 24 rolls.      *Note:
D;hot mixture into egg yolks; return to remaining hot
D;another medium bowl to blend; add 1/3 cup buttermilk and vanilla and
I;freshly ground pepper to taste
D;40 minutes, or until the figs are soft with a good thick syrup.
I;haddock or halibut)
D;piquant cucumber salad, which can be made with one of the three
D;In a medium saucepan, bring 2 cups of water to a boil. Stir in rice.
D;Recipe from Taste Of Homes Ground Beef CookBook
I;1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
I;1 c. buttermilk
D;Shrimp Creole (Crockpot)
I;1/3 pound sugar snap peas, ends and strings removed
D;375 degrees.
D;with cookie cutter. Lift out rounds with offset spatula and sandwich
I;1 1/2 cups milk
I;For topping
D;sheet of foil on work surface; top with waxed paper strips, spacing
I;8 ounces mushrooms, any combination of domestic and wild, sliced
D;the onion and saute for 5 minutes. Add the drained can
I;Tomato Sauce
D;eggs until blended. Add oil, salt and 3/4 cup sugar and beat until pale
I;Ingredients for Filling:
D;medium high heat. Brown the chops for 2 minutes on each
D;heat. When the oil is nice and hot, add the lamb without crowding and season
I;Juice of 1/2 lemon
D;Combine sugar and remaining 1/4 cup water in medium saucepan. Stir over
I;1 1/2 tablespoons vanilla extract
I;2 tablespoons fat ** see note
D;add egg/cheese mixture, stirring constantly. 
D;Increase the heat to HIGH and add the shrimp.
D;or it will curdle!
I;2 lg Yellow onions, sliced and separated into rings
I;5 cups milk
D;Quarter the onions. Chop scrubbed celery and carrots into 1 inch
D;Blueberry Barbecue Sauce
D;heat and season with salt and pepper. Let cool until lukewarm, at least
D;for no less than 3 hours.
I;1 lb. hamburger
I;along center and flap edges
D;20 minutes or until thick. Prepare taco shells according to package directions.
D;Strawberry
D;with second chocolate band, pressing onto uncovered side of cake so
I;1 1/2 cup Heavy cream
D;(batter will be runny).
I;2 extra- large egg yolks -- at room temperature
I;1/4 cup dry white wine or white wine vinegar with
D;and cut into bars.
I;1 14 1/2-ounce can Italian-style stewed tomatoes
D;9 hours, High 3 to 4 hours.
D;minutes or until very soft.
I;rice
I;1/2  cup           celery -- finely chopped
D;minutes.  Remove tea bags.  In sauce pan combine remaining ingredients
D;Betsy's Notes: Weekends are my baking time. I've taken to making
D;traditional meatballs are a bit smaller) with your hands.
D;3. Bake bread slices in a pre-heated 325-degree oven for 10 minutes.
I;1/4 C Dry wine or vermouth
D;chicken juices run clear. Very easy. Baked chicken seasoned with garlic,
D;from stove, cover and let mixture cool.
I;8 cups chicken broth 
D;Spread thin layer on ham slices, roll, chill for
D;advance, or frozen (without the oranges) for up to 3 months.
D;into separate bowl; add to margarine mixture and mix
D;40-45 minutes.
D;but the recipe lives on.
D;rack. Serve
D;Jewish chicken soup is usually served with thin egg noodles or with
I;3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
I;100 grams butter -- (3-1/2 oz) plus another
I;1 cup cocoa
D;Important: this cheesecake will drip while baking -- you'll want a tray
I;1 celery rib, chopped
D;ground pepper and cayenne pepper and simmer for 10 minutes.
D;reserved saucepan and cook over moderate heat, stirring constantly with
I;1/4 c Orange juice
I;Cornmeal
D;on two plates.
I;2 Tablespoons Flour
I;Salt and freshly ground pepper
D;1/2
I;1 3/4 cups peanut oil (for deep-fat frying)
D;for the top.
D;Hungarian Jewish food is a perfect example of acculturation. Take this
I;ground black pepper to taste
D;pieces from each slice of bread).
I;lime wedges and toast points for garnish
D;Place a candied orange slice in center of cake. Pour glaze over top,
D;meal complete.
D;garnish
D;a mixture of cacao powder and icing sugar. Make little balls from the
D;Blend butter, sugar, flour and salt. Add eggs, beating well. Stir in corn
I;or 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon oil
I;1/4 cup good quality red wine vinegar
I;3-7oz cans Herdez Salsa Verde (Mexican Tomatilo Salsa)
D;Bake in a pre heated oven at 220 C/425 F/Gas mark 7 for 15 minutes
D;some of these healthier treats:
D;until golden around edges and tester inserted into center comes out
D;Note from Cheri:
D;butcher's twine, season it with more salt and pepper, and transfer to a
D;stirring frequently. Reduce heat to medium; stir in cream
D;one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. In
D;Makes 8 servings.
I;Salt, pepper, granulated garlic, to taste
I;1 cup graham cracker crumbs crushed
D;Peel and finely mince the garlic cloves. Peel and dice
I;1 whole clove
D;Preheat oven to 350 F.
D;Jar and seal.
I;1 4 oz can mushrooms,drained & sliced
I;cold water -- as required
I;4 cups herb seasoned stuffing mix
D;Pecan Stuffed Pork Chops
D;chocolate. Using fork, turn to coat and lift out chocolate-coated ball.
D;Source: My Old Recipes
D;Beat sugar and margarine in medium bowl with electric mixer until
D;soup, vegetables, and milk; heat. Pour around
D;flour and salt. Beat at medium speed 1 to 2 minutes, just until
D;refrigerator until set. This makes a good gift. You can also serve it in
I;Streusel
I;flour and season with (optional: salt) and pepper
I;1 pound crab meat (king snow, dungeness); out of shell, thawed
I;2/3 cup buttermilk
D;German french toast
I;1/4 tsp crushed red pepper flakes or hot sauce
I;1 1/2 tsp chicken bouilion
I;1 pound small fresh mushrooms,
I;1 teaspoon dried basil  
D;but it pays off later!]
I;1 cup ice cubes and salt and pepper to taste.
D;If mixture is too soft, beat in additional butter.
D;. "Oaxaca City is one of the world capitals of ices or 'snows,'" says
I;1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
I;1 pound (2 large) russet potatoes, peeled and cubed
I;Shells:
D;cake layer on platter. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread 2 cups
I;1 c water
D;(2-1/2-inch-diameter) muffin cups with non-stick spray.
D;messiah Shabbetai Tzvi in 1666, the subsequent partition of Poland, and
I;2 lb wrapped-heart mustard cabbage (2 heads)
D;water, then disolve it over boiling water. Allow to cool to tepid. Placed iced
I;1/4 c. dry sherry
I;1/2 clove garlic, minced (optional) 
I;GARNISH:
I;Freshly-ground black pepper ; to taste
I;1 teaspoon seasoned salt
I;Apple Cabbage Slaw Veronica
D;Slice cake in half horizontally. Place bottom layer on 8-inch cardboard
D;Summerfield, North Carolina
I;1 lg Grapefruit, chopped in a -- blender of food processor
I;1 tablespoon dried oregano
D;1" apart on cookie sheets treated with non-stick cooking spray. Bake at
D;Bake in a preheated 325 degree F. oven for about 60
D;at medium speed. Stir in remaining flour mixture. Blend
D;. For grating ginger, look for the newer microplane-style graters,
I;Filling Ingredients:
D;tightly. Bake for 1 1/4 hours, or until done. Serves 1.
D;simmer for at least 1 hour.
I;1 tsp. salt
D;TIPS:
I;For Cake:
D;Tortellini Soup
D;In a saucepan, combine the sugar, flour, and salt. Add milk in gradually
D;Marnier-water mixture, cream, eggs, sugar, vanilla and nutmeg in large bowl to
D;onto sides of cake. Pipe 12 frosting rosettes around top edge of cake,
D;Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15
D;Yogurt Deviled Eggs
D;forced to make and bring to every family function--from the late Lonnie
D;Holidays in our home were strategic missions. We had a plan, everyone
D;Top with remaining cookie mixture.
D;This rich, simple dish is from Harry's Bar, Earnest Hemingway's hangout in
D;Oven Baked Crab Dip
D;Arrange 1 scoop of each ice cream in each of 6 stemmed glasses.
I;1 small onion minced
D;Return shrimp and add dill.
D;Makes scant 2 cups.
I;3 bell peppers, 1 red, 1 yellow, and 1 green, seeded and cut into 1-inch
D;Hand out party favors or special pencils/erasers.
I;2 Tbsp oil
I;1 teaspoon seasoned rice vinegar (5 mL)
I;4 cups milk
D;smoke.
I;Breakfast Potatoes
I;2 Tbsp. butter or margarine
D;Double Chocolate Layer Cake
I;1/4 cup lard (very important...don't use synthetic shortening)
D;either with rice or potatoes. Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
D;Oil a shallow baking pan. In a large bowl combine the dry ingredients and
D;450 for 10-15  minutes.
D;a boil. Skim off the froth.
I;1 16-ounce container whole-milk ricotta cheese
I;1/2 cup passion fruit juice ( or mango or pineapple juice )
I;1-1/2 cup sugar (you can use Splenda and make mine sugarfree)
D;melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Cool chocolate until
D;Makes 12 to 14 servings.
D;done when they are fork tender and nicely caramelized.
D;Garnish with extra peanuts if desired.
D;Organization: Posted via Supernews, http://www.supernews.com
D;allowing some chocolate to extend beyond edges of paper strips. Using
D;Mix all ingredients except 7-UP and put into a 5 quart pail.
D;pan for 10 minutes adn then turn out on wire rack to
I;Yield: 24 servings
D;Pour batter into bundt pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer
I;2 oz Semisweet baking chocolate
D;-Punch down dough and divide and shape into 1 inch balls, placing three
D;batter will look lumpy.
D;* 3 times the normal amount used to cook potatoes.
I;8 slices bacon, fried crisp and crumbled
D;covering completely. Shape into balls; place on ungreased cookie sheet.
D;Preheat the oven to 275 degrees.
D;Roast Chicken With Orange, Lemon, And Ginger
D;and 3 tablespoons yogurt)
D;through funnel spout, if too thick, add 1 to 1/2 Tbs. milk. Fry about
D;*stem, seed and slightly crumble dried ancho chilies.
D;Whisk first 5 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Stir cream, milk, and
I;1/2 ts Salt
D;a further 40 to 45 minutes.  Serve immediately with Hot Rum Sauce.
I;of crust mixture to form a crust all the way up the pan sides. Compact
I;2 cups heavy whipping cream, sweetened with a little powdered sugar
D;33rd Bake-Off Contest, 1988
D;when browned.
D;Thaw shrimp and scallops, if frozen. Cut any large scallops in half. In a
D;F oven according to individual directions.
D;boil and turn down to simmer. Add dash soy sauce and bouillon
I;1 tablespoon Worcestershire
I;onions chopped fine
I;1 cup whipping cream
D;off from the heat.
D;1 tablespoon almonds. Makes 2 servings.
D;into the sultanas.
I;c Apricot Jam
D;taste) for each eggplant you have used. Add a dash or two of salt.
D;yolk mixture. Return to pan and cook over medium heat until custard
I;Turkey broth
D;cheesecake.
I;3/4 lb chicken breast, boneless, skinless, about 3/4 lb
D;pan. Be careful not to splash water into the cheesecake.
I;2 1/2 T Boiling water
D;golden, 10 to 12 minutes total, then transfer with a metal spatula to
D;filling between layers; spread frosting on top and sides. Refrigerate until 
D;liquid for each addition.
D;Mona
I;4 1/2 teaspoons wasabi powder
I;6 cups chicken stock 
D;Two Quart Mason Jar.
I;joints only (tips reserved for another use)
D;find plantain bananas and black beans.)
I;Garnish: fresh mint sprigs
D;Mix well, then roll into meatballs, 3/4-inch in diameter. Then
D;Pumpkin Snacking Cake ThePreparedPantry
I;2 Cups uncooked egg noodles
I;Butter slow cooker/Crock Pot and put salt and pepper on fish to taste. Then
D;Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  To a small skillet preheated over medium
D;In a medium gratin dish or oven-proof casserole pan, melt the butter
D;next day; to reheat, spread quiches in a single layer in a shallow pan and
I;3 drops tobacco sauce
D;coals and grill pork loin chops until done, usually about 10 minutes per
D;spread
I;1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper (1 mL)
D;In a medium bowl, combine the beef, egg, bread
D;slides right off the bone. Here's the secret method. The slow
I;1 c. tomato sauce
D;sides. Turn out cake. Remove pan bottom. Peel off parchment. (Can be
D;pre-heated oven. Place cheesecake on center rack and close oven door.
D;remove from pan. Makes 16 rolls.
D;Test-kitchen tip: To get a neat slice when cutting an ice cream cake,
D;Makes 1 Quart.
I;Recipe from New New Orleans Cooking by Emeril Lagasse and Jessie
D;Broccoli Soup
D;butter and sugar mixture. Add half the milk and beat until combined.
D;Transfer to large bowl.
I;1-1/4 cup graham cracker crumbs
D;Combine all ingredients except shrimp. Cook for 3 to 4 hours on HIGH or for 6 to
I;1 can cream of shrimp soup
D;(mitsa)  In a casserole, combine the beef (with the fat), tomato sauce,
D;Angela's Italian Organic Oregano is grown on a small mountain in Italy;
D;Sautéed
I;firm, abut 2 hours, then freeze in sealable plastic bags. Thaw before
I;paprika
I;Caramel Icing:
I;1 1/2 t. salt
I;tomatoes
D;the green onions and sesame seeds. Serves 6
D;Diane Bukatman
D;frosting to spreadable consistency).
D;thicken and intensify the flavor.
D;tester (I use a toothpick) into the center. If the cake is done, it
D;Land in order to live a more fully religious life. They brought with
D;Make stew:
D;Finely chop chocolate and in a bowl combine with hot coffee. Let
D;-Preheat oven to 375.
D;1 Fat WWP - 5 Points
I;1/3 cup sweet wine, such as Sherry, Madeira or Marsala
I;1-1/2 cups sugar
I;2 t. instant minced onion
I;4 pounds asparagus, trimmed and cut diagonally into 3 inch lengths
D;skillet. Drop meatballs into simmering soup and cook uncovered 8-10
D;Submitted by Dotty
D;in 1760, he had created a full-fledged religious movement known as
D;Repeat layers. Top with bread crumbs, cover. Bake at 350° for 1 1/2 hours. Makes
D;Simple Solution
D;4. Roast for 5 minutes more and check for doneness - depending on the water
D;and mushrooms or on the side.
I;Combine:
D;high heat, stir in spinach by handfuls to soften it. Cook, uncovered,
D;Add Bananas and saute.
D;Mayonnaise Biscuits
D;salt in a food processor. Add the mustard and puree. Add the vinegar by
D;350 degrees for 1 hour. This cake goes fast!
D;minutes or until the cake tests done. Cool cake in
D;until cool and very thick, about 10 minutes.
D;-Preheat broiler or toaster oven. Split English muffins in half and toast.
D;Gyoza
D;Season with salt, pepper and garlic while heating.
I;1/4 cup chopped green onions
D;Very lean meat exchange 1; starch exchange 1 1/2;
D;a time.  Stir in remaining chopped pecans.  Spread top of one layer
I;lettuce leaves
D;until smooth.
D;with Mozzarella and Parmesan cheese and place under preheated broiler for 1
I;1/2 cup coarsely mashed ripe banana (1 medium)
I;1/2 cup grated Romano or Parmesan cheese(or both equally mixed)
D;Bak Ku Teh (Pork Rib Tea Soup):
I;1 8-ounce container non-dairy whipped topping
D;limes
D;while cooking.
D;1 minute. Whisk in the   butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, adding each piece
D;Caramel Squares
I;1 No. 2 1/2 can tomatoes
D;patties. Bake at (350F) for 12 minutes or until hot.
I;Fudge:
D;each orange slice. Place hazelnuts between orange slices. Serve with
I;1 pint coffee ice cream
I;2 lb hito (catfish) dressed or pickerel or trout
D;flakes. Sprinkle mixture over the chicken. Top with the tomato slices. Bake
I;good-quality commercial balsamic vinegar plus 1 teaspoon brown sugar
D;and oil. Pour over the dry mixture. Spread no more than 1/2 inch thick in
D;in flour, salt and pepper. Cook over medium heat,
I;1/2 cup all-purpose flour, plus additional for surface
D;with foil. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) 45 minutes. Remove foil
I;1 lb fresh masa (or 1 3/4 cups masa harina mixed with 1 cup plus 2 Tbsp hot
D;in about 1/4 cup of olive oil, duck fat, or a combination. When they
I;11/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
D;(Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with foil and chill.)
I;3-3/4 cups sugar
D;Raspberry cheese coffee cake: Substitute raspberries for blueberries. If
D;Grasshopper
D;Cool to barely lukewarm.
I;1 1/2 cups Bisquick baking mix, (original)
I;1-10 oz. can frozen strawberries
D;Cut fish into bite-sized pieces.  In large bowl, mix lime juice, soy sauce
D;outside of pan. Slide onto a serving plate, and chill until ready to
D;6. As soon as the mixture is set, fold omelets together, cook an
D;Cuban Black Bean Soup
D;Cool.
I;reserving leaves for garnish
D;Stuffing the Breasts
D;Sharp and pungent when raw, mustard cabbage sweetens and mellows with
D;teaspoon salt and bring to a boil (liquid should almost cover meat).
D;Spoon 2/3 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip.
D;10-inch-round glass pan with parchment paper. In a work bowl, gently
D;Exchange
D;- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
D;comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
D;Active time: 1 1/2 hr Start to finish: 7 hr (includes freezing)
I;chocolate, coarsely chopped
I;salt and black pepper to taste
I;2 tablespoons sugar
D;of savories or hot hors d'oeuvres.
I;1 can ea undiluted: mushroom soup,tomato soup, cream of chicken, onion
D;Remove from oven and turn onto a towel. Wrap cake in the towel and let
D;sesame oil. Heat peanut oil
D;until smooth. Serve immediately.
D;a sprinkle of caroway seeds (which I don't).  One way or the other,
D;Place bottom half on top half and cut into fours.
I;1 cup dried black-eyed peas or two 15-ounce cans -- drained
D;whisk until smooth. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl
D;nonstick spray. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt 3 times into medium
I;1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
D;spoon or pastry bag, refill whites using about 1 tablespoon yolk mixture for
D;Transfer frosting to a bowl and cool, stirring occasionally, until
D;Preheat oven to 400 F. Whisk yolk with 1 tablespoon water to blend.
I;1 tbsp Rice vinegar
D;with chives.
I;juice of 1/2 lemon
I;Additional sugar
D;the chicken. Garnish with orange sections.
D;fish is firm but moist.
I;cups hot cooked rice
I;1 egg 
D;Appetizer Mini-Quiches
D;From: "Peter R. Chamlis" <pchamlis@nettally.com>
D;until smooth after each addition. Still at low speed, add sour cream,
I;2 bunches asparagus, tough ends trimmed, cut into 1-inch pieces
I;4 eggs, divided
I;6 chayotes
D;squeeze out all excess liquid.
I;2 Eggs
D;sizzle), Cover loosely (I use a lid that is a bit smaller than the pan
D;onion, celery, salt, parsley and pepper. Cover and simmer
D;with juice, lemon juice, brown sugar, cherries, salt, and pepper and
I;1  envelope unflavored gelatin
D;gently with rubber spatula so that croissant and apricot pieces are evenly
I;1 pound flank steak, sliced against the grain, on an angle, cut into
D;Source: <http://foodfest.neworleans.com/rec_inv.php?RESID=217>
D;open the door a crack and let the cheesecake cool in the oven another
D;Ashland, Oregon," says Sandra Miller of Cherry Hill, New Jersey. "Their
D;medium heat 6 minutes. Add bell pepper and onion; cook 3 to 4 minutes or
D;and chayote.
D;room temperature.
I;1 1/2-pint basket fresh blueberries
I;20 ingots (0.7 oz. each) Omanhene dark milk chocolate, chopped
I;6 hard-cooked eggs
I;2 boxes (10 oz each) frozen broccoli florets, thawed
I;1 cup sifted plain flour
I;Thinly sliced fresh basil leaves for garnish, optional
I;Butter the sides ONLY (using butter in addition to the 5 Tbsp) of an
I;1 t. salt
I;3 green onions including tops
I;Special equipment: an electric coffee/spice grinder
I;4 ts Baking powder
D;5 to 7 minutes. Drain the bacon on paper towels. Remove all but 1 tablespoon
I;1 1/2 - 2 cups sliced mushrooms
D;heating
D;the biscuits in half.
D;frozen chopped spinach can be substituted. The acini de pepe floating
I;1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
I;Salt and ground pepper to taste
D;Cooking.
I;1 teaspoon cracked black pepper
I;extra cacao-powder and powder sugar to coat
I;Special equipment: a 2 1/2-inch fluted round cookie cutter
D;push
I;Cake layer:
I;Celery sticks
D;mixture.
I;1 pound hole milk ricotta cheese
D;From Better Homes and Gardens
D;Preheat oven to 350*. Butter a 1 qt. shallow baking dish. In large skillet,
D;325 F for 40 minutes or until the center doesn't jiggle. Cool and
D;Cooking time :   1 hour
D;taco seasoning
I;1pound box confectioner's sugar
D;ladle more of the hot broth around it.
D;Using an electric mixer, cream butter and sugar until completely
D;Most Italians would use ground ginger, but since fresh ginger is so
D;with the rounded edge of each slice parallel to the perimeter of the
D;flavored with roasted onions and garlic.
I;Pinto Beans
I;For cookies
I;1 cup Shredded White Cheese (like Gruyere, Swiss, or Jarlsberg)
D;to serve if desired.
I;Special equipment: 4 (4-oz) parfait or other tall narrow glasses
D;cheese, cumin, chilies and 1 1/2 cups of the cheese until
D;make for so many people.
I;2 cups diced cure ham
D;vanilla.
D;Marinate the chicken in this mixture for several hours,
D;Bat Wings
I;1  tablespoon milk
D;140mg Cholesterol; 2189mg Sodium.  Exchanges: 1/2 Grain(Starch); 1/2 Lean
D;Mix together soy sauce, honey, and ginger. Marinate chicken overnight. Grill in
D;flour is moistened. Do not over process. Batter should
D;Break noodles into small pieces and cook according to
D;knife around cakes to loosen. Allow cakes to rest in dishes 5 minutes.
D;some salt. Heat until boiling, and throw the pasta in. Cook until
I;25 Lb. meat (add 1 1/2 cups liquid lard)
D;Sprinkle with half the crushed cookies. Repeat layers. Top with remaining
D;warm.
D;2. In a large mixing bowl stir together flour, cornmeal, baking powder,
I;1/4 lb Firm tofu
I;1/2 cup milk and 1 egg, seasoned with salt and pepper
I;Ingredients
D;(This can be done in advance.)
D;SYRUP
I;celery
D;Return shrimp to sauce.
I;1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
D;* Note: Fresh avocado leaves are toxic, they must be dried to be used for
D;a boil, then thicken with the cornstarch slurry. Spoon a puddle of
I;1 c Whole Wheat Flour
I;Salt according to taste
I;dabs of butter
I;Meatballs
I;finely chopped
D;Place the cup of crumbs in a small bowl, and stir in 1 teaspoon of egg
D;out of this recipe.
I;Sour Cherry Sauce:
D;amount of water; place large spoonful of mixture on each bun. Makes 24 servings.
I;For the pizza dough:
I;white icing, (below)
I;16 ounces Andouille sausage, sliced
D;Crystallized ginger strips
D;In a 2-quart deep fryer, heat vegetable oil to 350=BAF. Deep fry
D;combine. Place in ovenproof baking dish; cover tightly with foil. Bake for
I;1 oz Light Cream
I;2 t. chili sauce
I;Citron
D;middle of oven until a tester inserted in center comes out clean, 1
D;Once the pan is full, set it over medium heat for a few minutes - check
I;1 1/2 cup smoked mozzarella cheese, cut into small cubes
D;Prepare broiler.
D;degrees for 45 minutes. Stir once halfway through cooking.
D;set aside.
I;1 small onion, sliced very thin and rinsed in cold water
D;VARIATION:
I;*Optional: drizzle with olive oil before serving
D;lay it in the palm of your hand. Add ~1 Tbsp. of filling, dip a finger in
I;remaining crust mixture firmly and evenly on bottom of pan. (Try not to
D;Heat oven to 350 F.  Mix the dry spices together and rub into the ribs
I;Kraft Colby cheese, grated
I;1/2 cup heavy cream, whipped
D;watery. Makes 6 servings
D;Slice thin.
I;4 medium carrots, peeled and shredded in a food processor or coarsely grated
D;onion is
D;11g
D;Place lemon juice in a small bowl, and sprinkle gelatin over the
I;Salt (a pinch)
I;pinch of ground cloves
I;1/2 cup pastina (tiny pasta)
I;16 ounces corn tortillas -- cut in 1/2-inch strips
D;begins to boil, add the hazelnuts and stir until nuts are well coated.  
D;off the drippings and turn up the heat and brown them pretty good
D;equally. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
I;foil bake cups
I;1 tablespoon cornstarch, mixed with 1 tablespoon cold water
I;1/4 cup grated peeled fresh ginger with juices
I;10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
D;more tsps of water as the dough ball was not forming to my liking.  Let me
D;Remove from heat and strain the greens from the water. When cooled,
I;1/2 teaspoons oregano
I;3/4 cup malted milk powder
I;6 green onions, sliced
D;brush: an offset metal spatula
D;and set aside.
D;top. Place pork chop on top. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Close up foil
I;4 large egg yolks
D;Cut the lemon into quarters. Rub the outside of the chicken with one of
I;scotch bonnet pepper
I;1 cup (4 ounces) shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese, divided
I;trimmed and broccoli cut into 1-inch pieces
D;for well-done.)
D;to form soft peaks.
I;1/4 tsp. Salt
I;1 cup butter, softened
I;1 cup roasted salted macadamia nuts or roasted salted peanuts
D;Combine all ingredients in crockpot. Stir gently, but
D;minute or till the cheese is melted. Makes 4 servings.
D;cottage cheese, mozzarella and sauce. Using sauce for the top layer. Bake in
D;vanilla, and cooled chocolate mixture. Mix well. Add flour and finely
I;Seasoned Egg Wash:
D;"...different kinds of bread without yeast..."
I;2 tbsp milk
I;Shortbread:
I;INGREDIENTS:
I;1 (2 pound) beef boneless round steak, 1/2 inch thick
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding03.html
D;let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 1½ hours. The dough is ready
I;20 quahogs (If you cannot find quahogs, substitute 40 cherrystone
D;eat it. 
D;paper.
D;each with wooden picks.
I;1 lb Chicken breasts, skinned
D;13-inch pan.
D;Press down edges of cake to flatten if necessary. Maintain oven
D;skillet and boil until reduced to sauce consistency, about 5 minutes.
D;seconds at highest speed.
I;For the delice
I;Minced fresh parsley
I;12 1-ounce squares semisweet baking chocolate
D;Chick peas in spanish sauce
D;in bananas until smooth.
I;1 can (14.5oz.) cut green beans*
I;2 oz all-purpose flour salt and pepper oil for frying
D;25.0 mg Magnesium: 46.1  mg
I;freshly ground black pepper -- to taste
I;2 eggs, beaten with Parmesan cheese
D;Meanwhile add chicken to water, Cover and boil for 5 minutes. 4.) Add
D;http://www.e-rcps.com/pasta/rcp/soup/italwed_1.shtml
D;temperature.
I;Fontina Val d'Aosta cheeses
D;4-ounce ladle or 1/2 cup measure, ladle batter for waffle into the iron,
I;Butter, for the mold
D;cook, stirring occasionally, for 7 minutes. Uncover and
D;Cheers!   :-)
D;You may call it French Dressing if you wish, but never tell that to a
D;desserts in my family, and didn't contain walnuts (as they bother her
I;Salt -- to taste
D;the turnips into halves, or quarters if they are small. Big ones should be
D;thrugh. Yields 6-8 servings.
I;1 cup mayonnaise
D;few flaked almonds
I;1/2 cup freshly grated Romano
I;For Figs:
D;(I use this over toast and add pepper to it too.)
D;Vegetable; 0 Fat.
D;between prepared pans.
D;and cook on low heat for 2-3 hours or until fish
D;plate. Serve warm.
D;nuts.
D;Melt butter in heavy large skillet over medium heat.
I;1 1/3 cups water
D;mixture and serve.
I;Pinch cayenne pepper
D;let crust cool slightly.
I;12 ounces Gruyere cheese, grated on the large holes of a box grater
D;are thinner and do not take abuse well. Anyway, take one gyoza skin and
I;1 TBLS flour
D;flows through spout, move funnel in a crisscrossing pattern above
D;shortening with 2 spatulas. Add milk, Mix quickly and lightly. Turn
D;Frugal Tip - Stock-up on French Fried Onions during and after the holidays.
D;Sprinkle juice over top. Bake 40 minutes at 350 degrees.
D;Serves 4 - 6
I;1 (6oz) pkg semisweet chocolate morsels
D;to 238 degrees F. (soft ball stage). Beat egg yolks
D;easily, about 15 to 20 minutes.
D;cover and simmer 10 minutes.
I;1 teaspoon cloves
D;The soul would have no rainbow
I;8 ozs. vanilla or pineapple low-fat yogurt
D;alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions each. Divide batter
D;I have no idea what this should be called. My wife made it by
I;1 pt fresh cream
D;chill, covered 5-6 hours. Drain vegetables; reserve marinade. Arrange
I;20 cups water (5 quarts) 
D;Meanwhile, in a small bowl whisk the orange juice, oil, balsamic vinegar,
I;1 med. onion, chopped
I;2 baking apples, peeled and sliced (Granny Smith are good)
I;3 cups soft bread crumbs (4 cups for a firmer pudding) very easy to make
I;Ice cream
D;separate bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda and
D;Carolina-Style Barbecue Sauce
D;minute per side; transfer to plate. Add onion, garlic and oregano to
D;-Heat the oil in a large, heavy ovenproof pot or casserole over medium high
D;Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl;
I;1 orange
D;Quebec Sugar Pie
I;pinch of ground white pepper
D;dish out to serve.
I;1 lb beef tenderloin or round steak
I;1/2 c Apricot Jam
I;For ganache frosting
D;as they are.
I;Batter:
D;chicken and apples are tender.
I;Process only until almonds are very finely chopped. Turn into medium
D;Stout Pork Loin Chops
D;Joyce's English Bath Buns
I;1 lb ground beef
I;2 cups Milk
I;Topping
D;Franfurter kranz (frankfurt crown cake)
I;1 3/4 c. milk
D;Transfer to a serving platter and let rest for 10 to 15 minutes. Carve
D;Uncover; cook on medium-high heat, without stirring, until a candy
D;A neighbor gave me this recipe after I tasted this at her house.  It's very
D;set aside. In a large stockpot heat chicken broth to boiling; stir in
D;Makes 6 main-course servings.
D;stirring occasionally, until spinach is tender, 5 to 8 minutes. Season
D;bowl over saucepan of barely simmering water; stir until chocolate is
D;fruit and vegetables around meat. Garnish with minced fresh parsley and
D;Category: Beverages, Pastas & Noodles, Seafood, Tarts & Pies
I;1 leek (white and pale green parts only), thinly sliced
D;with crackers.
D;In a large mixer bowl, combine cake mix, eggs, water, butter
D;If necessary, cut off any excess phyllo at ends of roll. (Roll should
I;10 oz. cooked broccoli
I;Beer And Cheddar Muffins
D;This to die for cheesecake is a specialty at the world's largest
I;Barbecue Sauce -- recipe follows
D;Return to a boil, uncovered. Meanwhile, whisk together yolks in a large
D;Prepare and roll out pie crust. Line the unpricked pie shell with a double
D;to a boil; add noodles. Stir well. Cover and reduce heat. Cook for 30 min.
I;chopped
I;1 shallot
D;to coat back of spoon and registers 170 to 175 F on thermometer (do
D;Wild Rice Soup
I;30 ml (2 tablespoons) BACARDI Spice rum
I;8 Green onions -- chopped
D;salt. Pour into the pie shell.
I;1/2 cup red apple, cored and diced
I;two 3.5 oz. pkgs.)
I;4 bunches fresh spinach, stems removed and rinsed thoroughly
D;large bowl until smooth.  Slowly add the gelatin mixture while beating.  
D;Freeze by manufacturer's directions for your ice-cream maker. Or to
D;parchment paper; a 2 1/2-inch fluted round cookie cutter; a pastry
I;4 large garlic cloves, chopped
D;Veal Shoulder With Porcini Mushrooms, Garlic And Rosemary
D;in frying-pan 3 minutes. Stir in water. Combine graham cracker crumbs,
I;1 tablespoon olive oil
I;mashed
I;3 eggs beaten
I;Almond Topping:
I;1/2 pint (about) vanilla ice cream
D;3 to 4 garlic cloves, minced
I;Garnish: freshly grated nutmeg
D;parsley, basil, tomato and red pepper flakes. A very simple dinner.
I;3/4 cup sugar
I;1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan + 1/4 cup more for garnish
D;left out if you prefer.
D;Old Fashioned Sugar Cream Pie
D;greased 2 qt. casserole, add a layer of peas, then a layer of meat mixture.
D;tapped on bottom, about 35 minutes. Transfer loaves to rack and cool
I;Cracked ice
D;Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 F. Butter and flour
D;salt, pepper, parsley, 2 minced cloves garlic, eggs, milk, and bread
I;32 shrimp - (16/20 ct); peeled, cleaned
I;1/3 cup olive oil
D;Spoon sour cream over top and warm.
D;t. parsley and 1 t. basil evenly over the bottom of the baking dish. Arrange the
D;BBQ sauce.
I;canned chicken broth
I;1/2 cup molasses
D;Barbecued Beef N Bean Burgers
I;American cheese
I;1/2 lemon
D;out 1 cup of crumbs, and reserve the remainder in a storage container.
D;I got this recipe off of another group.  It was posted by Merrill and
D;vanilla bean.
I;2 eggplants
I;1 sm can of sliced Jalapeno Peppers with the juice
D;Preheat oven to 425 F. Bake cakes until batter has risen above dish,
D;cup water in recipe.
I;3/4 c Water
D;scallions, toss until scallions are tender. Add black pepper, memmi, and
D;Cut cleaned fish into 1-inch pieces. Combine all ingredients except
I;Icing
I;florets of a large head of broccoli, steamed until tender crisp
I;Grated Parmesan cheese
D;browned. Yield: 4 servings.
I;1 8-ounce carton plain yogurt
D;one chicken breast on each square. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place
D;for 30 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.
I;salt and ground black pepper to taste
D;vigorously). Stir until caramel bits dissolve, about 2 minutes. Stir in
D;Bread Pudding.
I;peas
D;In a small bowl, mix sugars, flour and salt. Gradually stir in heavy cream.
D;13-by-9-inch dish. Stir in boiling water. Cover tightly with foil. Bake 30
I;Special equipment: a well-seasoned 14-inch wok (preferably
I;8 oz Part Skim Mozzarella Cheese, -shredded
I;Chopped Green Chiles
D;Makes 4 servings.
I;Pierogi and vareniki dough
I;freshly-ground black pepper ; to taste
I;1/2 head cabbage
I;1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons milk
I;2 large garlic cloves, finely chopped
D;Beat butter, 1/3 cup powdered sugar, and orange peel in large bowl to
I;1 cup buttermilk or regular milk
D;Lamb Hunter-Style St. Pete Times
D;any representation as to the results.
D;Bountiful Brunch Pizza
I;Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
I;Lemon Peel
D;(Cover remaining phyllo with a damp cloth to prevent drying.)   Place 2
D;Stir 8 ounces chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering
I;2 Tbsp. oil
I;Pudding Topping:
D;high heat  tsp  Reduce heat to low.  Add meatballs, pastina and spinach.
D;Bert
D;Bougatsa
D;http://www.cooksrecipes.com/soup/italian-wedding-soup-recipe.html
D;occasionally. Drain shrimp and scallops, discarding marinade. In a medium
D;Note: canned chickpeas may also be used.
D;Season with salt and pepper.
D;Combine the vodka, tomato juice, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco,
I;3/4 C. chopped green bell pepper
I;Whipped cream frosting
D;bake until very dry and slightly crisp, about 10 minutes longer.
D;Chayote Soup
D;Freeze custard in ice cream maker, then transfer to an airtight
D;oil as needed. Transfer as browned to an ovenproof 6- to 7-quart wide
I;steamed basmati rice to serve
I;1/2 cup all purpose flour
D;Generously butter eight 3/4-cup souffle dishes. Stir chocolate,
D;has 78 calories and 0 grams of fat each.
D;Heat oven to 300 degrees. Season the chicken with Chinese five-spice
D;Cjoclem a la King
I;1 can (15 ounces) sliced beets (not pickled), drained, reserving 1/2
D;15 minutes, or about 18 minutes for refrigerated batter. Run small
D;necessary, microwave at HIGH an additional 20 seconds or until chocolate is
I;Grated zest of 1 lemon (zest is yellow part of rind)
I;1            package  instant vanilla pudding and pie filling
D;vanilla ice cream.
I;1/4 t. paprika
I;1/4          cup               sherry
I;8 ounces fresh spinach or escarole, washed, drained, stems removed,
I;Topping Ingredients:
D;rest.
D;Preparation
D;Description:  .Beef slow cooked in a rich wine sauce and wonderful
I;1/3 cup dry white wine
I;Raisins
D;high heat until beef is thoroughly cooked, stirring
I;1 lb Fresh squids, dressed, cut into 1/2-inch round slices
D;Keep frozen.)
D;Makes 1 quart.
D;partly cover pan. Simmer for 1 hour, or until meat is almost done. Add
D;minutes over low heat. Check the seasoning. Serve warm.
D;Preheat oven to 350º
I;1/4 cup white wine vinegar
I;2 Tablespoons Parsley -- chop
I;1 1/2 cups reduced-sodium chicken broth or vegetable broth
D;out of pan.
D;(5 mm) of vegetable oil in a large skillet over high heat until it is
D;Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40
I;18 vanilla wafer cookies
D;sheets in
D;Sour Cream Chocolate-Chip Cake
D;10 minutes in the pan, then turn out onto a wire rack.
I;2 cups ice
D;Cholesterol; 4189mg Sodium. Exchanges: 12 1/2 Grain(Starch); 4 1/2 Lean Meat; 5
D;Reserve. Slice the onion
D;Recipe By: CrockeryKitchen
D;Barbecued Stuffed Mushrooms
D;noodles.  Add salt and pepper to taste.
I;1 tsp salt
I;1 1/4 Teaspoons baking soda
D;Now add the cream, the vanilla, the juices, and the zest. Mix for
D;in juice (apple and lemon). Cook and stir constantly until thickened
I;1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
I;1/2 Package Fyllo Pastry 8 - 10 sheets
D;something I added, because of a personal passion for that flavor.
I;Extra virgin olive oil
I;14 ounces Chocolate Sweetened Condensed Milk
I;1/2 to 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper
I;12 sheets fresh lasagna noodles, 5 by 7 inches each, enough for 36 ravioli
D;1/2 Fruit; 3 1/2 Non-Fat Milk; 110 Fat; 13 1/2 Other Carbohydrates.
I;1 can (8oz) crushed pineapple; drain--reserve juice
I;Paprika
D;boil, add the uncooked meatballs, simmer for about 25 minutes, add the
I;2 cups red kidney beans, soaked in salt water for 4 hours
D;center. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. In medium heat proof bowl, place
D;Ham and Cheese Roll-ups
D;celery, carrots, and minced clove of garlic in olive oil. Season with
D;bed
D;375 . Fry chicken all at one time about 1 minute or until golden
D;lifted, about 8 minutes. Sift 1/3 of flour over and gently fold into
D;Serve over cooked noodles.
I;3/4 cup milk
D;Add orange rind, orange juice and orange extract; beat until well
I;1/2 lb. Darigold fondue cheese, cubed
I;3 tablespoons vegetable oil
D;cake out onto rack.
I;900g chicken  (skinned quarters, smaller pieces on the bone) or boneless
D;cheesecake, and with the slices tip to tip. Using a pastry brush, glaze
D;Source: Biba's Italy by Biba Caggiano (Artisan, $29.95)
I;fresh ground pepper to taste
D;bratwurst and onions. Serve with maple syrup. Makes 8 servings. Source:
D;warm until serving.
I;Garnish with:
D;cheesecake into the refrigerator. Chill at least three hours before
I;1 lb sweet potatoes peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes
D;cheeses and vanilla, stirring until cheeses are completely melted and
I;Black Pearl Ganache:
D;and eat while hot. You can adjust the contents (shrimp instead of pork,
I;2 tb Melted butter or butter
I;broccoli florets
I;1  cup boiling water
I;1 T. dried basil
D;goes great with chicken dishes.
D;for
D;cake. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top
D;This is a peanut butter pie recipe that is so easy and delicious.
D;top of fruit.
D;uncovered, until tender, about 10 minutes.
D;beginning and ending with flour. Pour into pans. Bake in a 350 degree
I;1/2 cup honey
D;Sprinkle with the soy sauce and the garlic. Cover
I;1 1/4 c Raw converted rice
I;1/3 cup whole milk
I;2 large eggs
I;2 dried figs
D;Stuff cabbage while sauce simmers:
D;Yogurt with Bananas - Kela Raita
I;into cubes
D;until rice has absorbed all liquid.
D;stuffing mix and margarine, reserve 1/2 cup. To the
D;medium-high heat. Add onions and garlic and cook until beginning to
I;1 large onion
D;firm to touch, about 30 minutes longer. Carefully remove bread pudding from
I;1 cup grated mozzarella cheese
I;1 1/4 cups water
I;1 cup Sugar
D;balls each into 24 greased muffin cups. If making loaves, divide dough in
D;Serve immediately.
I;1                     flank steak -- (2-pound) trimmed
D;Freeze crust 20 minutes. Spread fig mixture onto bottom of crust.
I;Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
D;This is a recipe that was submitted by Maria Koukos to another group. I
D;Cream cheddar, cream cheese and butter.
I;3 clove of garlic
I;1 ounce reduced-fat Swiss cheese, sliced or shredded
D;Dissolve 1 tsp unflavored gelatin in the liquid.  Combine liquid with 
D;and salt into wrok bowl. Process until mixed, about 5
D;all-important "ooze" factor.
D;This recipe has been used by my family, and most of the rest of the
I;1 1/4 teaspoons salt
I;(about 1 lb.
D;Nice Christmas Gifts.
I;6 cups (about 6 to 8) tart apples, pared, cored and thinly sliced
I;margarine
I;1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
I;1/4 C. Cheddar Cheese, shredded
D;1/2 inch thick then cut the slices in half.
I;In food processor fitted with a steel blade, combine almonds and sugar.
I;1 onion, minced
D;nicely browned.
I;1 pound extra lean ground beef  
D;Cook to desired doneness.
I;1 pound boneless sirloin steak, cut into thin strips.
D;until meat is thoroughly cooked; drain.
I;3 beaten egg yolks
D;bowl; gently stir in remaining berries. Cover and chill until cold, at
I;1 1/2 ounces vodka
D;melted shortening. Pour batter into pan and bake about 30 minutes in a
D;flour mixture. Process on/off 5 times. Sprinkle raisins
I;pound can tomatoes, cut up
D;Italian Wedding Soup
I;2 pounds shoulder or breast of lamb, cut for stew
D;plain dumplings.
I;Extra cream for garnish
D;Serves 8
I;1 can stewed tomatoes or canned diced tomatoes
D;sauce and   garlic powder.  Mix well.  Shape meatballs, using 1 rounded
D;batter (batter will not reach top of crust -- ok). With toothpick,
I;8 cups Idaho potatoes, peeled, cut in half
I;1                     Indian bay leaf or normal bay leaf
D;into the batter until mixed well. Pour the batter into the pan, spread
D;4 to 6 uszka per plate. Above quantity is sufficient for 6 servings.
I;4 large bunches fresh spinach, trimmed, washed, water still clinging to
D;9-inch spring form pan. Set aside.
D;4. Using a sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut bread slices into
D;Keywords: cream, whipped, mock, diabetic
I;2 1/4 cups whipping cream
I;1 (1-pound) loaf Panettone bread, crusts trimmed, bread cut into 1-inch
D;and enough water to make 1/4 cup. Add to flour mixture, 1 tablespoon at a
D;another 5 minutes. Remove bay leaves. Serve over hot rice, garnished with
I;Pita bread, cut into wedges, for dipping
D;calories 168; total fat 3 g; saturaged fat 1 g;
I;Add:
D;small saucepan over medium heat.  When sugar is dissolved and liquid 
D;In a medium bowl, combine brown sugar, chocolate chips, chopped pecans,
D;30 minutes. Transfer pot to top of stove and, working over moderately
D;Grate cabbage and carrots into shreds, set aside. Wash and slice
D;with a fork.
I;Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Salad
D;teaspoon at a time, into center of veal through openings of string (or
D;It's scary what excessive candy can do to your kids
I;4 eggs
I;8 large garlic cloves
I;Mesquite wood chips
I;a glass of liquid cream
D;   approx. 15 Minutes. Cook Time: approx. 10 Minutes. Makes 8 to
I;1 c. enriched flour
I;2 cups spinach- packed, rinsed and  
I;8 ounces apricots or nectarines, halved, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
I;4 cups sliced onions
D;except 1/2 cup from the cans of mandarin oranges wedges.  Heat the 1/2 
I;1 1/2 lb spinach, coarse stems discarded
D;inserted into the center of the cake will still come out with some
D;with the cream and half and half over medium heat. Stir in the Parmesan and
D;Chackchouka
D;dissolve. In large bowl, combine cottage cheese mixture,
I;5 Tbsp unsalted butter, melted
D;Add half (about 1 cup) of the Dream Whip to the cream cheese mixture and 
D;A very easy way of making delicious Belgian Chocolates is making
D;Cut veal crosswise into scant 1/2-inch-thick slices. Overlap slices in
D;into soup bowls.
I;oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
D;Combine corned beef, green pepper, onion, mayonnaise,
D;refrigerator 1 to 1 1/2 hours and then at room temperature 10 minutes.
I;2 tablespoons prepared horseradish
D;heat, Stir in the molasses, butter, brown sugar, salt, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg
D;done. Add sour cream; heat. Makes 6 servings.
D;spoon and registers 175 to 180 F on thermometer (do not let boil).
D;(Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool slightly, then refrigerate uncovered
I;1 10-1/2 ounce can condendensed
I;4 1/2-pint containers blackberries, divided
D;Top with the pizza sauce, oregano, vegetables and mozzarella. Bake
I;1/4  cup granulated sugar
I;1 cup HERSHEY'S MINI CHIPS Semi-Sweet Chocolate
D;APRICOT GLAZE: Finally heat jam and press through
D;while making cake.
I;A 3- to 4-pound banana squash (available -- halved lengthwise seasonally
D;400ºF oven for 3 minutes.
I;package of tortillas (flour is best)
I;crackers (about 18 boards)
I;1 head of escarole, washed, steamed and chopped to bite size
D;and milk. Pour ingredients into a buttered casserole, and bake at 325
D;tipping cake pan to cover completely. Chill for 1 hour, or until glaze
D;the sauce over high heat. Pour the sauce over the lamb, taste for seasoning
D;Prep  Time:30
D;Prep Time 10 minutes
I;ice
I;2 large egg yolks
D;Sephardim (Jews of Middle Eastern and Mediterranean extraction) eat
D;container and put in freezer to harden, at least 2 hours.
I;1/2 cup uncooked small elbow
D;to a boil. Cook, uncovered, for 5 minutes or until heated
D;brown. Cool in pan on wire rack.
D;Naples - Campania
D;In a saucepan, combine the sugar and cocoa; stir in milk. Add butter. Bring
D;temperature, away from drafts, 2-1/2 to 3 hours.
I;1/2 cup Rum
D;Habaneros length ways and set aside.
D;pineapple juice and 1/2 cup chopped nuts. Mix well. Pour into graham cracker
I;For The Butter
D;rum-ginger ice cream.
I;Garnish:
D;brown sugar, onion and chicken bouillon in
I;1/4  teaspoon lemon juice
D;supermarket.
I;2 teaspoons grated orange peel
D;Line unbaked, unpricked pastry shell with foil; fill with pie weights
D;done (it will look limp). Drain.
I;1 can green beans (drained)
D;Cover tightly and refrigerate).
D;Cover andcook on low 10 to 12 hours (high, 3 to 4 hours) or until potatoesare
D;press start.
D;I used to work as a cook for Olive garden , their alfredo sauce comes out
D;Place a heaping teaspoon of the filling in each prepared muffin cup.
D;combining shortening with powdered sugar, milk and vanilla.
D;Carrots in beer
I;2 cups peeled and cubed fresh pineapple (1-inch pieces)
D;(3 oz).  In either case it is vague if just called a package.  Watch for
D;In a saucepan cook bacon, celery and onion over medium heat for 10 to 15
I;1 medium onion, minced 
D;each short end. Spread ice cream in pan, smoothing top, then wrap pan
I;1 pound fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
D;inserted in center comes out clean. Cool bread 15 minutes
D;a greased 13x9x2-inch pan. Bake at 350 F for 6 minutes. Sprinkle
I;Candy Apples
D;10 minutes before serving.
I;6 each Eggs; Large *
I;pepper
D;Corn nuts, peanuts, or trail mix
D;Ginger Scented Bamboo Risotto Cakes with Chili Lime Sauce
D;with salt.
D;margarine just until brown on both sides. Remove. Pour
D;over fig mixture in crust. Gently shake pan to distribute filling. Bake
I;frosting (recipe below)
I;1/2 lb Ground beef 
D;occasionally,
I;1/4 tsp Salt
D;Heat oil and add the onion and garlic. Cook, stirring often, until the
D;meal. Fresh
D;in case one or two break - and the cookies are delicious even without
D;The Ultimate Chocolate Cake
I;1 tsp baking soda (2 tsp baking powder if using whole milk)
I;1 cup corn cut from cob (about 2 ears) or frozen whole kernel corn, thawed
D;eggs, beating until combined well. Add sugar mixture and beat on medium
I;12 radishes
D;Line large rimmed baking sheet with waxed paper. Using 1 1/2-inch round
I;2 tablespoons dry yeast
D;the cilantro.
I;1-46 oz. can pineapple juice
I;brandy
D;I make. The syrup is what makes it so good. One can use any or all of the
D;the top, they are cooked.
I;Juice and zest of 1 fresh lime (about 1 Tbsp each)
D;Garnish with lemon wedges.
D;Cajun Seasoning
D;cinnamon which have been mixed. Roll like a jelly roll. Cut in slices
D;mixture, part at a time. Choose one variation (these
D;Makes 8.
D;place on a flat surface. Using pot holders, slowly raise the pan so
I;crackers if desired
I;1/4 cup orange liqueur
I;Tuna Tartar
D;of grated Parmesan and Romano cheese on top. Salt and pepper to
I;1  package red raspberries, preferrably frozen and thawed or fresh
D;had a job, and in a perfect world, we would somehow deploy the food
D;a half. Eat stuffing and pumpkin!
I;[or the best-quality Italian plum tomatoes available to you]
I;canned peaches or canned tropical fruit and puree in blender)
I;1 Tbsp salt
D;cream. Sprinkle with ground coffee beans.
I;2 1/4 cups whole milk
I;2/3 cup Granulated sugar
I;6 each Egg Yolks; Large
I;Sherry
I;Cream butter and sugar
I;Filling:
I;french onion soup undiluted
D;Serves 4 to 6.
I;Mustard to taste
I;5 tablespoons water
D;sets, about 5 minutes. Gently peel off paper. Refrigerate cake.
D;placed in breast reads 165-degrees F (about 3-hours).
D;Source:  Family Circle 
D;roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of baking dish. Bake 1 hour. Remove
D;Carbohydrate 68.2g
D;Beef and Beer
I;Hollandaise Sauce:
I;butter pan   1 1/4 cup  Chopped pitted dates
D;Makes 6 to 8 servings.
I;8 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves
I;want mild)
D;top of the bag, and squeeze the cloth to expel liquid from the cheese.
D;Recipe from Pillsbury
I;1 teaspoon orange extract
D;Wasabi Bloody Mary St. Pete Times
D;thoroughly. Cover and cook on High setting for 4 to 6 hours. Makes
D;Gradually stir in milk. Cook and stir 4 to 6 minutes or
I;cut into 3/4" cubes
I;1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
D;Shape into marble-size balls. Brown, drain and set aside.
D;Heat gently, stirring constantly, until the sugar is completely
D;First, make little meatballs (sort of like Swedish meatballs).
D;15 mins more. Do not boil. Pour sauce over fish, add wine. Reduce oven
D;bird is covered.
D;and cook on LOW HEAT setting 8-10 hours. Remove ribs to
D;sticky. Turn out onto floured surface and knead 2 minutes.
D;Finely grate zest from 2 oranges and cover zest with plastic wrap.
D;Clam Bisque
D;basil, parsley and 1/2 cup Parmesan cheese. Mix well and form into
D;remaining ingredients; pour over ribs and onion. Cover
I;1 medium onion sliced
I;2 1/2 to 3 pounds Alligator, cut into 1 inch cubes
I;Chili Glaze recipe follows
I;Prep: 15 min, Cook: 30 min.
D;each antipasti.
I;3 six-oz cans tomato pasteD;531mg Sodium. Exchanges: 0 Grain(Starch); 0 Lean Meat; 12 Fat.
D;Add vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
I;3 cans chicken broth
D;Ranch Style Salad Dressing
D;serving.
I;Chopped scallions
I;Salt & pepper, to taste
D;toasted ground cumin
I;Use the cooking water from the beans combined with a light stock made from
D;jelly-roll pan. Bake for 13 to 15 minutes or until slightly
I;juice and zest of one lime.
D;Add remaining ingredients
I;4 fresh parsley sprigs -- no stems
I;2 cups milk scalded with 1/4 cup of butter
D;Batter will be lumpy.
D;juice, sauteed vegetables, and corn bread in a bowl. Add 1 teaspoon
D;soda, brown sugar and red wine.
D;Melt the butter in a heavy soup pot. Add the onion, celery,
I;5 tablespoons margarine, melted, or olive oil
I;1 cup chopped dried Calimyrna figs
I;2 lbs. lean ground beef
D;cool immediately.
D;Lightly oil large bowl. Add dough, turning to coat with oil. Cover with
D;Add 3 cups of the broth and puree all in a blender or food processor.
D;with cheese.
I;1 Tbsp vanilla
I;Brownies:
I;Additional berries, if desired
D;is fully cooked.
I;1/2 gallon limeade
I;10 bacon strips cooked and crumbled
I;1 t. ground cinnamon
D;with port wine.
I;1/2 teaspoons onion powder
D;overnight.
D;yellow and green peppers; cook for 5
D;up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 /4-inch-high sides.
D;Serve, garnished with the sesame seeds or peanuts.
I;1 sweet potato, scrubbed and cut into 1-inch chunks
I;dash ground black pepper
D;Total 20 Min.
I;3/4 Cup finely chopped celery
I;Chopped Pecans
D;10 min, stir occasionally.
D;little of the spaghetti sauce. Alternate layers of the lasagna noodles,
I;Worcestershire sauce to taste
D;I was scouring the net trying to find the recipe for my Waring Belgium
D;Categories : Cajun/Creole Casseroles
I;1  pinch salt
D;Roasted Onion and Garlic Mashed Potatoes
D;3 asparagus spears and a few slices of olives on top of chicken. Wrap
D;amount of tomato. Sprinkle with basil and cheeses.
D;serve.
I;8 oz elbow macaroni, cooked
D;Bake in 350 Degree F. oven for 10 minutes. Transfer pan to wire rack;
D;2 months.  Makes about 14 cups.
D;cake pans; smooth tops.
I;Soy sauce to taste
I;Applebee's Chardonnay Mushrooms
D;refrigerator. Serves 4 to 5.
D;You can use strawberries, blueberries, maple syrup, whipped cream if
I;1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened well
D;Preheat oven to 350.
D;additions. If frosting is very soft, freeze until firm enough to
D;is nontraditional.
I;2 tbsp. olive oil or melted butter
D;Pre-heat your BBQ grill with a pizza stone in the grill. While this is
I;Dash salt
I;8 cups water
D;until the cake is light brown on top.  For the cream cheese layer, 
I;1 1/2      teaspoons  Gluten            ----  I use Bob's Red Mill Vital
D;thermometer reads 300 degrees ( hard-crack stage), about 25 minutes.
I;kosher salt to taste
I;2 1/2 tablespoons sherry
I;dash Nama shoyu (optional)
D;streusel.
D;Boil potatoes in water to cover for 7 minutes or just until tender. Drain
D;Mousse:
I;1 42-ounce container tomato juice, chilled
I;2 c Flour
D;How to Build the Sandwich:
I;Apricot Crumb Pie
I;About 7 to 8 cups chicken stock
D;-Freeze for at least 30 minutes.
I;4 to 5 bunches fresh endive
I;1 small onion -- sliced
D;Serving Size  : 8    Preparation Time :0:00
D;amount of filling in center of each square; fold into triangle. Pinch ends
I;1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
D;3 Layer Chocolate Cake
D;dashi
I;1/4 teaspoon baking soda
I;3/4 c. rolled oats
I;8 oz Cubed ham
I;1green bell pepper -- finely chopped
D;saucepan. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, over medium
D;From: Blue Mountain Mist Country Inn and Cottages
I;Part of a loaf of dry white bread
D;Combine ingredients in a glass and stir.
I;-optional garnishes-
D;Chinese BBQ Ribs
D;in yogurt, milk, and melted butter. Add egg mixture to flour mixture all
D;Categories : Crockpot
I;3 chayotes, peeled, cut into 1/4 inch cubes
D;Cover with foil to keep warm.
D;Stuffed Beef Heart
D;2 slices of avocado, and a spoonful of spicy mayonnaise. Garnish with
D;with a lime slice.
I;1 teaspoon chopped oregano
I;1/3 cup Butter, softened
I;1/2 glass Clamato
I;3 large red or green cooking apples, cored, cut in eighths
D;Garnish:  To serve, remove sides of pan.
I;2 tsp sugar
I;2 packages (1 lb. 3 oz. each) Pillsbury Grands refrigerated biscuits
I;1 Tbsp. chopped parsley
I;1 large onion, chopped
D;Preheat oven to 350-degrees Fahrenheit, with a rack in the lower third
I;1/2 t. cayenne
I;1/2 t. parsley flakes
D;6 g carbohydrate; 0 g protein; 0 g fiber; 13 mg sodium.
D;bouillon cubes and all vegetables, except escarole. When water
D;vinegar and return the mixture to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer gently
I;juice from 1 large lime
D;Source: http://joyofsoup.com/archives/000067.php
D;Combine 1/2 cup warm water, yeast and 1 tablespoon sugar in large glass
D;with milk and sprinkle on anise
D;Green Ghoul Punch
I;1 oz Green Creme de Menthe
I;Nuts and maraschino cherries, optional
I;75g Chorizo sausage ( cut in 1/4" slices)
I;1 can (15 oz.) Great Northern Beans
D;fingertips until small clumps form. Spread on rimmed baking sheet. Bake
I;1/4 cup Parsley -- snipped
I;1 whole chicken cut up 8 pcs 
D;Meatballs are done when they rise to the top of boiling water.
I;chili sauce (optional)
D;be true. She says the secret is in the broth and often spends 2 or 3
I;2 cans (14.5 oz. ea.) stewed tomatoes*
D;be substituted.
D;Tip: Make a chicken salad with the remaining chicken pieces. If you
I;3 tablespoons margarine, melted
D;Bake
I;1 tsp dried oregano
I;1 lb large or jumbo shrimp , cleaned,tails left on
D;half or three quarters with vegetable peeler.
D;but you can use Scotch.
I;1 teaspoon baking powder
I;1 1/2 cups uncooked brown rice
I;6 tablespoons snipped dill
I;Ingredients for Pasta:
D;rise 30 minutes.
I;3 1/2 lb boneless lamb shoulder, trimmed and cut into 2-inch pieces
I;and
I;1 3/4 cups milk
D;Asian Pork Tenderloin with Caramelized Onions
D;Amount Per Serving
D;Caviar Pie
I;12 cup sugar
I;roasted peanuts divided
I;1/4 cup vegetable stock (50 mL)
D;bowl. Whisk into Port mixture and boil until slightly thickened,
D;thinly. Beat eggs in a bowl.
I;3 large egg yolks
D;ingredients in a separate bowl, add to pumpkin mixture, and stir well. Then add
D;Line large baking sheet with foil and set aside. Place another large
D;The Chmielnicki massacres in Poland in 1648, the apostasy of the false
D;minutes. Reduce heat to 350º. Bake for an additional 20-25 minutes longer.
D;Prep:  20 minutes
D;cooked. 
D;if necessary. Serve gravy with rolls.
I;1 lb baby goat meat, cut from the  leg, 1 1/2-inch chunks, trimmed of any
D;remaining dressing. Serve at once.
I;1/2 cup peeled, seeded cucumber, grated medium-coarse or diced small
I;garlic, and oregano, drained.
D;Stir in cream and freeze in ice cream maker. Transfer ice cream to an
D;thoroughly. Refrigerate until chilled. Preheat oven to
I;18 thick slices egg bread, cut into large cubes
I;4 (about 1 pound) b/s chicken breasts
D;the liquid to solidify. Remove the skin and bones from the chicken and
I;1 softened
I;1 (18.25 ounce) box yellow cake mix (with pudding)
I;SHELLS
D;In a small bowl, sprinkle gelatin over 2 tablespoons of the juice; let
D;oven proof casserole or flame proof roasting pan. Add the meat and turn to
D;Freeze about 4 hours before serving.
D;cup liquid in the microwave on high for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until hot.  
I;Angel food cake, cubed
I;1 cup canned pumpkin
I;3 cups oats
D;Venice.
D;Beat together yolks and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a medium bowl with
D;Mix rice with melted butter or margarine in crockpot.
I;Dipping Sauce:
I;Marie's Bleu Cheese Dressing
D;Request: Carrabbas herb and olive oil
D;stewed tomatoes on hand. Also, I omitted the green beans. Don't much care for
I;lemon wedges -- for accompaniment
D;apart on baking sheets. Gently flatten balls to about 1 1/4 inches in
D;after each addition. Mix in liqueur, vanilla and peel. Spoon filling
I;1 egg slightly beaten
I;1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process) plus 3 tablespoons
D;black pepper and red pepper flakes in a large heavy pot. Bring mixture to a
I;1 (4.5-oz.) jar Green Giant Sliced Mushrooms, drained
D;and lemon wedges.
D;or with ice cream or whipped cream.
D;g fiber, 9 g protein. Diabetic Exchanges: 1-1/2 starch, 1 fat, 1/2
D;on it. Carefully add enough hot water to the pan to reach halfway up the
D;Bloody Mary Punch St. Pete Times
D;Categories: Beverages
I;Refried Beans:
D;Sprinkle cheeses over sauce. Bake until chicken is just cooked through
D;immigrants, so it's likely that this is a Sicilian or Livornese recipe.
D;In nonstick skillet, heat oil over medium heat; cook
D;in well greased baking pan.
D;other problems shook the Jewish communities of eastern Europe. Some
I;2 boneless beef top sirloin steaks, cut 3/4 inch thick (about 1 lb each)
D;Vegetable Beef Soup
D;with a large spatula to flatten.
D;Note: Center of pie will be slightly runny when done.
I;cayenne pepper, to taste (start with 1/2 t., I'd think)
I;1 1/4 To 1-1/2 c Whole Wheat Flour
I;1 (8oz) can water chestnuts drained and chopped
D;pepper, caraway seeds, garlic powder and 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 ups whole wheat flour.
D;Source: Holiday Cookbook, American Diabetes Association, ISBN
D;rich, salty anchovy.
I;1/2 cup chopped celery leaves plus 2 stalks celery and their leaves
I;Nut Crust
I;All Purpose or Unbleached
I;Parmesan cheese
D;reached. (The remaining glaze may be brought to a boil in a saucepan
D;dissolve sugar.
D;yolks, one at a time. Mix in lemon rind and 2 T rum.
I;3 Tbsp Salt
D;Sevierville (Gatlinburg area), Tennessee
D;4. Place equal amount of egg mixture in each section of pan.
D;large cabbage leaf on a work surface and put 2 tablespoons filling in
D;in medium nonstick skillet, cook ground beef and onion over
D;1 hour.
D;a diamond pattern, with a sharp knife. Tightly tie the pork roast up with
D;line it with parchment paper).  Slam pan down on the counter a few times 
D;pourable, stirring frequently.)
D;wafers and hazelnuts in processor and grind finely. Add butter and
D;a small bowl; add boiling water to cover. Let soak 20 minutes; drain, finely
D;Makes 24.
I;1 can whole tomatoes -- (16 oz.)
D;In a bowl, toss apples and pears with lemon juice. Add grapes; toss gently. In a
I;4 ripe bananas -- peeled and cut lengthwise into halves
I;4 boneless skinless chicken breast halves (6 ounces each), pounded to
I;1 (10 oz.) pkg. frozen peas
D;to cook, stirring constantly, until the garlic begins to
D;Pare and core apples, cut into fourths.
I;1/2 t. onion salt
D;he made all the desserts at Andrea's for years. The orange aspect is
D;Makes about 6 dozen.
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding04.html
D;My favourite recipe for beef bourguignon is this one taken from a
D;gently with cold water. Cool. Serve in broth or fry until slightly crisp. Makes
D;slowly on other side. Sprinkle with parsley and serve. Serves 4
D;140C/275/Gas 1 for the 4 hours, then increase the temperature to
D;salt in a bowl. Whisk together eggs and vanilla in a small bowl, then
D;Alligator Chili
D;with Balsamic vinegar and sugar.
D;springform pan.  Chill for 2 hours or until firm.  Pour all liquid 
I;pinch of cinnamon
I;1 lb. lean ground beef
I;juice of 1 lemon
I;1/3 cup of margarine or butter, at room temperature
I;dash of red pepper flakes
I;1 large egg yolk
D;I usually sprinkle the top with a few more chopped walnuts.
I;2 quart hot chicken broth
I;12 chicken breasts (6-ounce each) boneless skinless
D;Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons peanuts. Bake 15-17
D;CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE: Place 1/4 cup HERSHEY'S MINI CHIPS and 1 teaspoon shortening
I;1/4 cup fresh lime, juice
D;foil. Form as many curls as possible. Repeat process with remaining
I;Garnish with crisp fried thin blue tortilla strips, as
I;1 small head iceberg lettuce, torn into bite-size pieces (about 4 cup)
I;2 tomatoes, sliced
I;For the Meatballs
D;sieve into a clean metal bowl, discarding solids. Set bowl in a larger
D;cool layers completely. Cake layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept,
I;(1-1/2 cups)
D;Serves 6
I;1 6 ounce package sliced mozzarella cheese
D;Place meatballs on a greased baking sheet and bake for about 25
D;get a thick gravey (but not too thick). Add the sour cream and
I;1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
I;4                    salmon steaks -- 1/2" thick
D;  Bon AppétitApril 1995
I;2 1/2 quarts chicken broth  
I;1/2 teaspoons cumin seeds -- finely ground
I;Parmesan cheese, shaved thin
I;cream of celery soup
D;or until the cheese is brown.
D;drippings. Cook, whisking, until pale brown, about 5 minutes. Add chicken
D;6-8 Portions
I;For ice cream
D;Meat; 0 Fruit; 2 Fat; 1 Other Carbohydrates.
I;1 cup pecans, chopped
D;37203
D;Place 5 or 6 pastry sheets in a greased 9x13-inch baking pan, one by
D;Makes 6 servings of 1 cup size.
D;Heat oven to 375 F. In large bowl, combine cake mix, oil, extract and
D;In a small, heavy saucepan, beat egg yolks until smooth. Whisk in milk.
I;3/4 tsp. baking powder
D;with salt and ground black pepper.
I;Fresh sweet paprika to taste
I;1/2  cup (1 stick)  Fleischmann's   Original-stick
I;3 bananas
D;oven to 375.
I;50 g sugar
D;This can be prepared one day ahead, making the seder day much easier.
D;time. Beat in melted chocolate until smooth. Mix in dry ingredients
I;Maple syrup, room temperature,
I;For the grilled turkey:
D;center comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Cool on a wire rack before serving
D;Make the brownies:
I;3/4 teaspoon baking soda
D;egg whites. Combine almonds and 1/4 cup sugar in small
D;gently. Serve at once.
D;salt and pepper.
I;Carrot, grated
D;cold, at least 2 hours.
D;until combined. Stir in chocolate chips. Spread batter in pan. Bake
I;2 medium red onions -- 1 inch thick slices
D;takes
I;2 packages (out of the standard three in the standard box) cinnamon
I;1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
I;1 pre-baked cooled pastry for 9 1/2" by 2" quiche pan with
D;turning occasionally. Cook the chicken under the broiler
D;Add vinegar; cook, stirring, for 30 seconds. Add red,
I;8skinless -- boneless chicken breasts
D;chives together in a medium size bowl. Add celery and crab. Mix well. Add
I;Cannelloni con Carne
D;3-inch muffin-pan cups, filling each 2/3 rds full.
D;Main dish
I;1 Reynolds Hot Bags Foil Bag, large size
I;1/8 teaspoon white pepper
I;6 apples
D;** Use cooking fat.
I;1 10-ounce purchased fully baked thin pizza crust (such as Boboli)
D;temperature. Combine sour cream and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in
D;cream ball at a time and working quickly, drop into lukewarm melted
D;low boil. Simmer until noodles are cooked.
D;Bake at 400 F for 25 minutes.
I;1/4 dried bread crumbs  
D;mixture and whisk until just combined (batter will be thin and bubbly).
D;or any combination.
D;DATE NUT CAKE Tampa Tribune
I;1 (6- to 8-pound) lean beef brisket
I;2 chickens (2 1/2 to 3 pounds each) -- quartered, with backs removed
I;raspberries
I;4 strips bacon, cooked crisp, drained and crumbled
I;Italian seasoning
I;1 T. butter
D;water.
D;Kathleen Edwards' Scrambled Egg Burritos From Woman's Day
D;in whiskey. Cool. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at
D;mixture. Refrigerate until nice and cold.  The salad will usually fill 2
I;1 t vanilla
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Cut the racks of ribs in half crosswise.
I;2 teaspoons cornstarch
D;Layer tomato, cucumber, and onion in shallow glass dish. Mix oil with next 5
D;10-inch round or two 8-inch rounds. Transfer dough to wooden pizza
D;Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large
I;halved and toasted
D;ingredients in same frying pan. Heat to boiling, then
D;silverware needed.
D;Maryland Crab Bisque
I;Salt and freshly ground black pepper
I;1/2 cup small pasta (i.e. orzo)
D;Pour entire pint of stout beer over the chops or up to the top of the dish.
D;carrots are tender
I;1/4 teaspoon Celery seeds -, about
D;1/2 Vegetable; 4 Fat; 0 Other Carbohydrates.
I;1 (6 oz.) pkg. butterscotch chips or semi-sweet chocolate chips
D;Strain, remove the chicken, discard the vegetables and refrigerate
I;1/2 avocado peeled, pitted and diced
D;Lasagna The Easy Way
D;Parmesan cheese.
I;About 2 cups Ritz crackers, crushed
I;crushed potato chips or dry chinese noodles, fried onion pieces
I;1 pound ground beef 
D;layer pans or one 9" X 13" pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 35 to 40
D;blended, 30 minutes.
D;bake 10 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack. Run small sharp knife
D;Sift flour, baking powder, and baking soda into a medium bowl and set
D;If you're looking for a quick and easy dessert idea for another
I;2 lb lean beef stew meat (trimmed of fat), cut in 1/4 inch cubes
D;Categories    : Italian                          Soups & Stews
D;crumbled chips and the coarsely chopped nut meats. Mix lightly. Use a
I;Orange-Scented Cheesecake:
D;Cholesterol; 133mg
D;Galumpous
I;1/2 teaspoon garlic powder, or to taste
D;3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Using electric
D;pumpkin, pumpkin pie spice and salt in medium, heavy-duty
I;1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
I;3/4 diced carrots  
I;1 1/2 cups grated Parmesan cheese
D;both directions to form squares.
D;10 minutes. [Simmering the wine in this mixture does  not reduce the
D;"A simple, light 'Chinese dumpling' classic ...whether in soup or fried,
I;about 1 teaspoon salt
I;1 green pepper, seeded and cut in 1
I;1/4 t. salt
D;sauce.
D;Just before serving stir the spinach leaves, oranges and onion into the rice
I;1/2 tsp Dried oregano, crumbled
I;2 tablespoon brown sugar
I;1/4 cup Soy Sauce Substitute
D;48 bars.
I;Flour, for dusting surface
D;Let it cool thoroughly.
I;1-1/2 cups applesauce (or can substitute stewed prunes,
D;Mashed potatoes, the ultimate comfort food, are even more yummy when
I;Paprika for sprinkling
D;lightly browned.
D;Make cookies:
I;1/2 pint whipping cream
I;1L cream
D;Russ Parsons,
I;1 - 2 T corn starch for thickening
D;Carbohydrate 6g, Dietary Fiber 0g, Sugars 4g,Protein 8g
I;Powdered Sugar, if desired
D;Butter a 10" pan. Preheat the oven to 400F.
D;Benihana's Mandarin Orange Cheesecake (Copy Cat)
I;vegetable oil for frying
D;starting with the flour.
D;45 minutes in a 350 oven.
I;Salt and white or black pepper to taste
I;Cajun spice mix (recipe follows)
I;1 pint vanilla ice cream, softened
D;Combine lime juice and wasabi with a whisk, until wasabi dissolves.
D;is the perfect complement.
I;sage)
I;4 servings:
D;spreadable (depending on chocolate used, it may be necessary to chill
D;Store in airtight containers. Yield: about 2 pounds.
D;Pre-cook chicken breast in pot of water till done (don't over cook).
D;blend the flavors.
D;together. Press the crumbs into the bottom of the 8-inch pan. Wipe out
D;large mixing bowl.
D;Notes from the cookbook: This sweet and spicy sauce pairs perfectly with
I;2 whole wheat English muffins
D;Tri Colour Pepper Sauté
I;4 T. milk
D;mixture into the soup, stirring continuously, until the egg is
I;1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
D;Mix well and let the dough rest for 5 minutes.
I;pinch freshly ground pepper
D;Japanese Dumplings (Gyoza)
D;0 Vegetable; 13 Fat.
I;1 stick butter, melted
D;the oven. Then turn onto cake cooler, remove the waxed paper. Cut the
D;Drain fruit cocktail and pineapple, saving juices in measuring cup. Evenly
I;3/4 c. bread crumbs
I;Bottled blue cheese salad dressing
I;2 Tbsp. maple syrup
I;Recipe By: Austral 9-17-03
I;3, 750 ml bottles of Champagne ( really any brand is fine )
D;tomato pasta and tomatoes and enough water to make a medium thick gravy.
I;6 flour tortillas (8 inch) or 8 corn tortillas (6 inch) cut into 1 inch pieces
I;find either so I used the little Great Northern)
I;Freshly-ground black pepper to taste
I;veal
I;fine)
D;Prepare Filling Topping:
I;salt, pepper, nutmeg
D;8 to 10 hours or High 4 to 5 hours..
I;2 large Yellow onions, sliced and separated into rings
D;on top before serving. Makes 20 1/2-cup servings.
D;Into a large bowl sift together sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking
I;1/2 glass hot and spicy V8 juice
I;1 lb Dungeness crab meat, picked over (lump crab meat is ok)
D;nuts and mix well.
I;Pinch of red pepper flakes
D;paste.
D;Meat Loaf #7
D;Cover pan and cook 10 minutes.
D;presto...the real stuff
D;350  for 12-14 minutes.  Let them cool on the cookie sheet for 2 minutes,
I;squeeze of fresh lemon juice
D;a dry rub of herbs and spices, cooked until crispy, and served in all
I;1/2 Bell Pepper -- chopped
I;1 1/2 cups spinach leaves, packed
D;the raisins to marinate
D;and jalapenos.
I;Minced parsley
I;1/4 c Shortening
D;Chocolate Mousse
I;1 beaten egg
I;1 cup half and half
D;Place pans on wire racks to cool.
D;mixture into the pork and mix well. Spray muffin tin with vegetable
D;These adorable sweets are festive, fun - and so easy to make. Just be
D;3. Pour 1 to 1-1/4 cups of batter onto grids of a preheated, lightly
I;TOPPING:
I;Sandwich
I;12 red apples --washed and dried, placed on skewers.
I;6 oz dried apricots (1 cup; preferably California)
I;1 ts Cinnamon
I;sprigs of fresh herbs
D;a little more hot stock and mix again. Then add to soup and stir.
I;1 (19 oz.) can tomatoes
D;Combine water, onion, catsup and chili powder; boil over med. heat for 6 to 7
D;frequently. Stir in the broth. Stir in the milk. Heat until
D;slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Transfer to rack.
D;Bacon Topped British Turkey
I;1 sm Cucumber, peeled seeded and grated or coarsely chopped
D;tender, about 10 minutes.
I;chopped pralines
I;4 chayotes
I;2 chayotes
D;Have a baking dish, at least 10 X 10 inches, and an 8-inch springform
D;will come out clean.
I;pork tenderloin (about 3 pounds) cut into medallions (small round discs)
I;1 Whole Egg
I;4 oz Cheddar Cheese, grated
D;Place potatoes, roasted onions and seasonings in stainless bowl or mixer
I;For sauce:
D;Partially freeze meat; thinly slice across the agrain into thin
D;evaporated.
I;1/4 cup bread crumbs (commercial, or grate your own from stale Italian
D;pour custard through a fine-mesh sieve into a clean bowl, then add
I;3 Cups Club soda
D;zest to a boil in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is
D;Blood Orange Glaze
I;2 cans of soup (Cream of chicken or Cream of mushroom)
D;4 quart slow cooker. Cover with onion slices. Mix
I;1/4 c. dry white wine
I;Mustard Sauce
D;Clear Miso Soup
I;3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
D;Stir espresso mixture into saucepan with caramel (mixture will bubble
D;editors recalled tasting herb-flavored custards in Milan years ago.
D;medium pan, cook shrimp and scallops in boiling water about 1 minute or until
I;1/2 lb. mozzarella cheese, thinly sliced
D;circles (use a saucer as a template), 12cm/4 1/2in in diameter. Divide
D;ingredients except reserved stuffing. Spoon into
I;1      cup           Italian bread crumbs
I;Few  drops of vinegar
I;1/2 cup peach preserves
D;minutes at 350F, until brown. (Optionally, you can sauté the meatballs
I;1 1/3 cups sugar
I;Confectioners' sugar
D;After the tenderloins have roasted for 30 minutes, remove from the
D;10 minutes.
I;Turn crust into prepared pan. With fingers or back of spoon, use most
I;crumbled
D;sheet, or use parchment paper.
I;1 13 ounces lentils brown
I;1 baked pie shell
I;1/4 cup Parmesan cheese -- grated
D;Ice cream can be made 2 days ahead.
I;6 potatoes, peeled, parboiled and cut into cubes
D;Cover pot and braise lamb in middle of oven 1 1/2 hours. Stir in
D;simmer.
I;1-1/4 cups light corn syrup
I;Makes About 1 Cup
D;4, main course.  Serves 6, first course.
I;1 2/3 cups (11-ounce package) Butterscotch
D;boiler set over simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water.
I;1 unbaked pie shell (8")
I;1 1/2 t. oregano
I;About 4 cups hot cooked fettucine or linguine
I;1/4 teaspoon black pepper
I;1 1/2 Pounds Pork Sausage -- mild
D;dinner parties.
I;Toppings: shredded cheeses -- chopped tomatoes, salsa, guacamole,
I;1/2 cup mayonnaise (or Miracle whip works fine)
D;day.)
I;pepper to taste
I;I hope this might be the recipe she is looking for
I;1 cup sliced mushrooms
D;Makes 10 servings
D;Bake cookies in batches until golden brown, 7 to 9 minutes. Slide
I;1 med. onion, minced
I;2 cloves of garlic, minced
D;Cook rice in 1 cup water as directed on package. Meanwhile
D;around the edge of the cake (you've got more than enough hazelnut crumbs 
I;Sour cream & green onions.
D;a thin shell. In a bowl, mash pulp with remaining butter. Stir in the
I;1/2 cup Butter, room temperature cut into eight pieces, plus extra to
I;1/4 C. Butter or margarine
D;Muffuletta Bread online.
I;1/4 pound grated Jalapeno Monterey Jack cheese (about 1 cup)
D;piece. This is unlikely.
I;Wheat Gluten flour, available online or from supermarkets & healthfood
D;Freeze custard in ice cream maker. Transfer ice cream to an airtight
D;Beginning in the late 1700s, groups of Hasidim began moving to the Holy
D;dish. Rewarm sauce; spoon over. Top with ice cream, more sauce, then
D;a boil. Cover and turn the heat to low. Simmer for 1 to 11/2 hours,
I;300 ml hard cider
I;1 can sliced apples (or 5 large apples peeled and sliced thin)
D;beans and cabbage. Cook for another 30 mintues or so,
D;First, Muffuletta Bread is usually only found in New Orleans, but you can
D;their
D;Joellen's Italian Wedding Soup
D;parmesan cheese
D;Cook 40 to 45 minutes or until internal temperature reaches 160 F.
I;2 tsp beef bouillon granules
I;4 (about 1 1/4 pounds total) boneless, skinless chicken breast  halves
D;soda, and salt into medium bowl. Whisk 2/3 cup sugar and cocoa in
I;green and yellow peppers
I;salt and freshly ground black pepper
D;I have a medium crockpot and would like to make a batch of good bean
D;other such items... great
D;Chicken & Sausage File Gumbo
I;1/8  teaspoon vanilla extract
D;In a kettle cook the onion in the butter over moderately low heat,
I;1/2 tsp salt and pepper to taste 
D;bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another medium
I;vegetable oil
I;low for 1 1/2 hours. Serve garnished with orange and lemon slices.
D;with dry cake mix.
I;softened ice cream
I;2 teaspoons dried basil, crumbled in your hand
D;Recipe from Tonya, Marshall, MN
I;4 cups canned low-salt chicken broth
I;1 (1 pound) loaf French baguette, cut into 1 inch slices
D;Pie pastry for single-crust pie
I;essence to flavor
D;Per Serving: 183 Cals; 6g Fat (28.3% cals from fat); 7gProtein; 29g Carb;
D;tea towel and let rise double
D;evenly, and bake 35-40 minutes. To test that the cake is done, insert a
D;two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms
I;for dusting pan
D;prick any obvious air bubbles. Place foil "tray" on lower oven rack in
D;several hours
D;and toss to coat well.
I;1 medium tomato, seeded and chopped (opt)
D;cut in half lengthwise and the halves sliced into wedges.
D;from foil. With chocolate side next to cake, place band around side of
D;15 minutes. Carefully remove the muffins from pan. Serve hot and enjoy!
D;a few slices of an orange. The orange is what makes the lard boil
D;until the topping makes stiff peaks.  In another bowl, whip the cream 
D;heavy medium saucepan 5 minutes. Cool mixture completely. Whisk Grand
I;2 T. diced onion
I;2 stalks celery, sliced
D;Cooks' note:
D;almond mixture, butter, corn syrup, cream, vanilla, and salt in cleaned
I;2 teaspoons salt 
I;1/2 gallon peppermint stick, party mint or mint chip ice cream, softened
D;Cook, stirring constantly, until sauce thickens.
D;marinade to serve.
D;Chayotes in White Sauce
I;Pepper
D;I haven't tried this yet, but it looked good so I saved the recipe.
D;Yield: 4 servings
D;Serve on muffins.
I;1 (28- to 32-oz) can whole tomatoes including juice
I;Juice & grated rind of 2 lemons
D;Don't just think about telling
D;the lighter.
I;jack cheese
D;is especially good sliced and toasted.  There is one note for the
I;1 1/2  cups creme fraiche or heavy cream -- non pasteurized
D;too
D;doupled in bulk. Slowly beat in the rum. Beat the
D;skillet. Reduce heat, cover and cook for 8 minutes at low
D;CAKE: To prepare cake, cream butter and sugar until
I;1/4 tsp. salt
I;1 teaspoon vanilla extract
D;pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Spoon half of berry topping onto
I;Marrow bones (optional)
I;2 slices Swiss cheese (4 x 8 inches), each cut into 8 pieces
I;graham crackers
D;minutes to 1 hour and 25 minutes longer, only until outer two inches or
D;oiled non-stick frying pan. Work quickly - it helps to have helpers at
I;Cinnamon
D;Chayote Stew
D;and bake for one hour.
D;it will be tough.
D;slightly. Whisk eggs, egg yolks, and vanilla in large bowl to blend.
I;celery leaves
D;1/2 hour. Transfer the borscht to a large tureen and sprinkle with
D;a nice crust and allow them to stay crispy and fresh at room
D;I didn't invent this one, but I sure like it!  If you like it spicy
D;bubbles.
I;1 (7oz) package elbow macaroni, cooked (or substitute other shapes
I;8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
I;1 small onion sliced
D;Salmon Pilaf
D;inch thickness; cut into desired shpes. Brush with beaten
D;cooked in center, but not overcooked). Cut in wedges and serve. Serves 6
I;1 tablespoon beef flavor
D;crumbs. Shape into 1-inch meatballs and brown in a skillet containing
I;Request From: rose garnica
D;"Also, with our Southern hemisphere winter approaching, I would like "true
D;water to cover 4 minutes; drain and set aside. Cook beef and next 3
D;Stir to coat rice thoroughly. Add all remaining
D;a strainer or sieve to make apricot glaze. CAKE
D;250 F. oven 30 minutes.
D;Makes about 4 dozen cookies.
I;6 drops Tabasco sauce (optional)
D;covering chicken and pasta completely. Mix cheeses in small bowl.
I;16 slices bacon, diced, fried and drained
D;mixer, beat eggs, sugar, espresso powder and salt in large bowl until
D;basil is finely ground, about 1 minute.
D;about 30 minutes.
D;Let stand for one hour. Makes 3 dozen cookies.
D;frequently. Stir in flour, bouillon and steat sauce.
D;until crumbs are moistened. Press into bottom of pan, and bake for 10
I;pinch of cayenne pepper
I;1/3 cup low-calorie margarine
D;cups of sauce. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
D;floats to surface; also make sure no bones are left in pot). Let
D;day ahead. Cover; chill. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before
I;3/4 cup orange juice
I;For florentines
D;Makes 24 rolls or 2 loaves.
D;creamy onion dish is sure the become a holiday favorite.
D;stem over filling and roll tightly into a cylinder. Stuff remaining
D;2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring, then remove from heat and let steep
I;**Kewra few drops (see below)
I;1/2 cup Celery -- chopped
I;Flavor Crisco Stick
I;2 tablespoons brown sugar
I;1 tablespoon Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
D;Source The Wonderful World Of Ice Cream
I;1 9 ounce package frozen cut
D;aside.
I;5 tsp oil
I;1 onion -- cut into 2 inch
I;2 Tbsp Milk
D;butter and sugar together.
D;Recipe from Favorite Brand Name Recipes
I;Salt and white pepper
D;more. Transfer casserole to a wire rack for at least 30 minutes. Spoon onto
I;generous 1/2 cup sweetened dried cranberries, a.k.a. "Craisins"
D;Beat whipping cream and vanilla until foamy; gradually add powdered sugar, 
I;Dressing:
I;2/3 cup vegetable oil
D;Bring half-and-half, cream, remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, and grated
D;Hostess Book.
I;Crushed candy canes, or crushed hard peppermint candies
D;Return to oven and bake for 20 min. Heat remaining soup, milk and Worcestershire
I;1/2 cup chopped green onion or
D;Recipe from Betty Crockers New Slow Cooker Meals
I;Garnishes:
I;2 T. sesame oil
D;Lightly brush tortillas with oil. Bake tortillas on 2 large baking
I;1/2 cup shredded cup monterey
I;1 (6 ounce) can black olives, drained and chopped
D;with salt and pepper in bowl. Stir butter into potato mixture and when
D;cup of Parmesan cheese. Stirring
D;hold their shape, about 5 minutes. Transfer cabbages with a large
D;and falls away from the bone. (1- 1 1/2 hours.)
I;Julienne beets, drain, save  Liquid then warm liquid from
D;another story.)
I;1-1/2 sticks butter
D;sauce, sesame oil and chili sauce. Bring to a boil. Stir constantly until the
I;An 8 1/2-ounce can cream-style golden corn
I;7-Up
D;By Penny Wantuck Eisenberg (William Morrow)
D;minutes. Remove brisket from pot and slice thinly across grain. Arrange
D;if a slight indentation remains when you press it.
D;mixture. Stir in vanilla, do not overbeat. Pour batter into 3 greased and 
D;double boiler or bowl from heat.
I;juice of 1lime to finish
I;Recipe taken from http://www.webrecipes.info
D;Procedures
D;mixture alternately with sour cream; mix after each addition just enough
D;covered for 25 minutes. Remove cover and continue baking 15 minutes or until the
I;lemon-pepper seasoning
D;seconds to 1 minute.
I;1/2 cup flaked coconut
D;set
D;15 minutes, stirring often, until meatballs are cooked through.
D;crystallization.
D;cool in pan 10 minutes
D;* Tortillas should be 10-inches in Diameter and warmed. Heat beef
I;Combine all of the above items, mix well and pour into your favorite pie
D;Add the sour cream. With a rubber spatula, scrape down the sides of
D;Add escarole, meatballs, noodles, eggs, and chicken. Bring to a
I;2 cups beef stock or 2 bouillon cubes dissolved in water
D;7 to 8 hours.  Serve over hot cooked noodles.  Store any leftover gravy
D;get the aroma of the masala, add the raisins and fry them lightly. Now add
I;1/2 cup Onion -- chopped
D;Preparation time : 10 minutes
I;Saute in 1/2 cup Melted Unsalted Butter:
I;For the crepes:
I;bowl; add graham crackers crumbs and mix well. Add melted butter; stir
D;dough, beating well after each addition. Beat on medium speed until
I;Vegetables:
D;remaining stuffing add eggs, mix well. Spoon into a
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding08.html
I;3 (10 ounce) cans refrigerated buttermilk biscuits
I;For the Marinade:
I;2 cups shredded coconut
I;4 turkey breast fillet steaks, about 100g/4oz each in weight
D;into the butter mixture. Beat egg whites until stiff
D;under it. To make one, use about a 15 to 18-inch length of heavy-duty
D;whisk into cooled chocolate mixture until combined well. Add flour
I;1 Teaspoon Dried oregano
D;To make spongecake:
D;(By Permission of the authors.)
D;24th Bake-Off Contest
D;vegetables are tender. Preheat broiler. Split buns and
D;40 seconds; fold into Whipped butter.
D;inside. Serve hot with Parmesan cheese sprinkled on top.
D;This is a great alternative to ham on Easter. It is easy to make a
D;medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and
D;pepper.
D;Place almonds, coconut, and pistachios in 3 separate medium bowls. Line
D;Cook the onions in the butter until soft. Combine with the other
I;1 cup quick or old-fashioned oats
D;do not prick bottom.
I;fruit to taste
I;3 TBLS lemon juice
D;not to cut through the opposite side. Cook celery in butter or margarine
I;2/3 cup non dairy creamer or milk
D;1-1/2
D;the soy buttermilk.
D;extract. Drizzle over hot rolls
D;back on the low fire.
D;(300g) can of Beef Consomme, bring to a boil and
D;seconds. Beat eggs with fork or whisk in large bowl.
D;water and nonfat dry milk in chilled bowl and beat until stiff peaks form.
D;sugar.
D;Meanwhile, cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water until just tender
D;little milk.) To serve, top with melted jalapeno jelly and shredded
I;Chopped fresh parsley
D;-Fill immediately or cool on a rack.
D;1 hour. Bring to a boil over high heat, reduce the heat and simmer
I;1 6-ounce package Bits of Brickle (Heath bits), divided
I;Salt and pepper, to taste
I;2 cloves garlic, minced
D;table. Serves 4.
D;for one.
D;and carrots. Cook over medium heat until just soft.
I;Freshly ground white pepper
I;1/2 cup each diced green pepper, onion, and mushrooms
I;Jalapeno Mayonnaise
I;1/2 large onion, chopped
I;pike -- rainbow trout
D;Cover, simmer 15 minutes or till apples are tender.
D;1/2 cup slivered almonds. Bake until meringue is light brown, 8 to 10
I;1 1/2 c. toasted oats cereal
I;1.5-2 kg. (3-4 lb) chuck steak, trimmed and chopped into small cubes
D;Combine flour, salt and chili powder. Cut in firm butter and solid vegetable
I;softened
D;stir. Pour over pasta and enjoy.
D;Cool layers completely in pans on racks. Run a thin knife around edges
I;of excess fat and cut into 2-inch (5 cm) pieces
D;In a large bowl, combine chicken pieces, garlic, salt and pepper; set
D;espresso mixture and corn syrup; blend well, scraping down sides of
I;2 tablespoons bourbon or rum
D;prefer.
I;1/4 t. dry mustard
D;coating them.
D;When ready to unmold the cake, run a damp knife around the edge of the
I;1 large onion, sliced thin
I;fish (use any combo of following:
I;1 cup chilled whipping cream, beaten to peaks
I;Ground cloves
D;vegetables on lettuce; pass reserved marinade. Makes 6 servings
D;until golden, stirring occasionally, about 18 minutes. Cool streusel on
D;5 minutes or until pork chops reach 160 degrees on meat thermometer.
I;3 green onions, cut into 2-inch slivers
I;some grated or stewed apple
D;lemon juice.
D;1/8" thick. Dip into flour mix, then egg wash, then flour mix again.
D;Peppers and jalapeno-flavored jelly add Mexican flavor to these
D;and sherry. If using saucepan, transfer to fondue pot, turning heat
D;cheesecake is a bit more "custardy" than the usual, the batter is very
D;with the rubber spatula.
D;clean.
I;1 9-inch graham cracker pie crust
I;3/4 cup miniature marshmallows
I;salt & pepper to taste
D;vegetables. Strain stock through cheesecloth to remove solids. Skim
D;peppers and onions.
I;2  tablespoons granulated sugar
I;white chocolate-striped candy kisses with --almonds
D;do not open. Serves 10 to 12.
D;soup along with the remaining rutabaga cut into thin strips as well as
I;thinly sliced  
D;Festive Onions
D;and salt. In another bowl beat eggs slightly with a whisk or fork. Beat
I;2 tablespoons shortening
D;of ice water and stir until cold, 10 to 15 minutes.
D;or until lightly browned.
D;CEREAL SURPRISE COOKIES
D;Line prepared dish with penne. Arrange chicken over. Spoon sauce over,
D;Preheat the oven to 350F.
D;Pasta chimayo-cafe pierre
I;2 T. chopped onion
D;Combine the water, yeast, honey and the 1 cup of whole wheat flour in a large
I;1 large carrot, (about 100g/4oz) carrot, peeled and coarlsey grated
D;taking
D;Caramelized Turnips
D;towel.
I;3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
D;1..
I;1 pt Hershey's chocolate syrup
D;Caramel ice cream, chocolate chip "blondies," and a crunchy streusel
D;on all sides to allow for air circulation. Set the "tray" aside.
I;1 tsp sea salt
I;1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
D;water; heat. Add more water if too thick. Place layer of sliced potato in
I;Aside from grilling on the BBQ, here's one of my favorite
D;Sugarless gum
I;mixed in)
I;2 lg Purple onions, sliced and separated into rings
I;1/4 medium Onion -- finely chopped
I;Prepared horseradish
I;About 3 cups sliced apples
I;1-1/2 tsp. ground Cinnamon
D;and season with salt and pepper. Pour the mixture over the onions and sprinkle
I;Cheddar-Macaroni Salad
I;1 1/2 to 2 pounds butternut squash
D;Agnello Arrosto con Carciofi
D;cultivated in Hungary since the sixteenth century.
D;servings.
D;Irene's Dirty Rice Casserole
D;Most of the alcohol in this cake cooks off, but a distinct whiskey
D;not boil).
D;the natural sweetness of the fruit.
I;1  envelope Dream Whip (whipped topping powder)
D;mozzarella cheese, Parmesan cheese and meat sauce in casserole. Bake at 375° for
I;1 liter ginger ale
I;For the dressing
D;325 F for 55 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes before serving. Makes 8 to 10
I;2stripsBacon -- thick sliced - diced
D;rectangles, triangles or other shapes. (You should get about four
D;salt. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture coats the
D;(Rodale, $19.95)
D;diameter with a fingertip.
D;stirring constantly, until bubbly; remove from heat. Stir
I;1 cup walnut pieces
D;5 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. Add beef, bamboo
I;1 tbsp white wine vinegar
I;1/2 cup drained chopped canned tomatoes
I;seeds and parings from a 1 pound pumpkin or winter squash
D;mixture in pan; blend thoroughly. Add cooked
I;topping, thawed.
D;thicken to gravy.
D;"I had never been especially fond of bread pudding, but I changed my
I;Soy sauce and thinly sliced red chiles for dipping
D;mixed. Remove bowl from mixer.
I;green beans
I;1/4 cup margarine softened
D;cilantro. Makes 4 servings.
D;-Press a sheet of foil into the bottom of the pie shell. Bake for 20
I;2 cups (1 pint) heavy cream, whipped to firm peaks
D;minutes.
D;For the crunchy nut crust, combine 1 Tbsp water with 2 Tbsp sugar in a 
I;1 teaspoon Ground red pepper  (preferably cayenne)
D;paprika and dried parsley over the top for lovely color.
I;6 white mushrooms
I;1 lemon
D;Remove skin from chicken. Dip chicken in evaporated milk. Then roll
I;tomatoes, drained)
D;the oranges with the remaining apricot glaze. Keep the cake
I;1 tablespoon minced garlic (from 3 cloves, see Cook's notes)
I;2 teaspoons vanilla
I;1 tablespoon each: red curry paste, soy sauce, fish sauce
D;sticky
I;stick margarine, melted
D;Cake:
D;heat. Do Not Overcook!
I;leek)
D;baking dish. In medium bowl, combine tomato sauce and
D;Melt chocolate in a double boiler.
I;leaves cut in chiffonade (4 loosely packed cups) or 1 package (10
D;Pat in WA
I;1 Teaspoon vanilla
I;fresh cilantro and green
D;and sprinkle the top with the remaining apricots and almonds. Bake 25
I;1 teaspoon vanilla
D;Simmer 30 mins . Stir in 3 cans cream of mushroom soup , 2 cans water .
I;Fresh rosemary sprigs
I;2 oz Jack Daniels
I;Extra-virgin olive oil
D;the bowl after each ingredient addition (keep doing this throughout).
I;1/2 c. crumbled Blue Bell potato chips
I;1/4 t. marjoram leaves
D;Pork
D;with almonds.
D;solidified fat before reheating and add spinach once stew is hot.
I;Sugar to taste
D;that ends of chocolate bands just meet (if ends overlap, use scissors
I;1 tablespoon light corn syrup
I;olive oil or margarine
D;Prepare meatballs by mixing ground beef, 1/4 cup Romano, bread
D;piece
I;Sticks) ; room temperature
I;4 pounds pork butt Boston butt
I;1-1/2 cups All-purpose flour
I;Juice of 1 lemon
I;1 whole chicken cut up
D;2. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla in large bowl until
D;on a plate and squeeze over the lemon juice.
D;for flavor. Set aside until later.
D;Set aside 1/3 cup beer. Pour the remaining beer into a large shallow
D;cover
I;5  drops yellow food coloring
I;White chocolate cream (see recipe below)
D;light brown
I;3 pounds boneless beefsteak, such as blade or sirloin, cut into 1-inch
I;Water *
D;and continue cooking 3 minutes. Serve gravy with stuffed pork chops. Makes
I;4 Tbsp oil
D;Fisherman's Catch Chowder
I;1 c wild rice
I;Seasoned flour:
I;2 to 3 tablespoons finely chopped rosemary or 1 teaspoon dried rosemary
D;Burger King's fries go to the stores pre-made and frozen. They are
D;with the cucumber.
I;1 pinch horseradish
D;1/4 cup cognac each day.  Soak the bread crumbs in milk and sherry or
I;Apricot Filling:
I;1/4 cup Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
I;1 4-serving-size pkg. cook-and-serve vanilla pudding mix
D;remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese, then add meatballs and stir
D;bowl, and stir.
I;6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
D;------------
I;1 small box orzo 
I;2 pork tenderloins, about 2 pounds total
D;and chill 8 hours.
D;to 35 minutes or until squash and sweet potatoes are fork
D;Combine all ingredients except catsup; place in loaf pan. Top with catsup. Bake
D;-------- ------------ --------------------------------
D;follow). Bake on ungreased cookie sheets in 325
D;Ande ki Bhorji
D;bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time,beating just until blended
D;FRUIT COCKTAIL DUMP CAKE from Tampa Trib.
D;Aubergines et Tomates Farcies
D;350° oven about 25 to 30 min. Gently remove meat from mold and place on platter;
D;2 minutes, or until smooth. If all butter has not melted in cooking, it
I;Ice ring:
D;the oil/butter, add meat, brown quickly, add onion and garlic,
D;Mean while gently heat the reserved barbecue sauce. When the meat is cool
I;20 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
D;cloves in large soup pot or Dutch oven. Add water. Bring to a boil.
D;caramelized sugar, was popularized.
D;so it doesn't dry up.
D;repeat
I;4 squares chocolate
I;2 cups Crushed Ice
I;1 cup milk (must be warmed) 110F 30 seconds to minute in the microwave
I;lemon juice
I;1 c. mayonnaise
D;Hot Chicken Salad in Stuffing Crust
I;8 ounces lean ground beef
D;a thin  knife. Top with remaining batter. Place cheesecake on baking
I;1/2 c. flaked coconut
I;3 tablespoons tomato paste
D;peppers and stir.
D;topping separately.
I;4 large eggs
I;Liquid & Seasonings
I;1 1/2 lb. fish fillets
I;1 1/2 tablespoons paprika (preferably Hungarian sweet)
D;time, substitute a purchased sauce. Simmer Grand Marnier and 1/4 cup water in
D;Crock Pot Broccoli Rice Cheese
I;1/2 lbs Penne pasta
D;dumplings off of the pan and serve "bottoms up." Make a dipping sauce of
I;Fresh tarragon sprigs
D;scallops until combined. Cover and chill at least 2 hours. Just before
D;Posted by PHILLIP BOWER
I;whipped cream filling (recipe below)
D;Soup
D;1. Lightly grease sides of 8 or 9-inch springform pan. Combine pecans,
D;about
I;2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley
D;slotted spoon to a large bowl of ice and cold water to stop cooking,
D;smoke, honey and lemon peel. Stir until thoroughly
I;2 cups salt
I;1 t. vanilla extract
D;of the egg mixture into each cup.
I;3 Tbsp oil
D;1/2 cup of brown sugar. Place peach slices over chicken, then sprinkle
I;made by a company called "Kaiser"). Set aside.
I;1 kohlrabi, quartered (optional)
I;Bailey's Irish Cream
D;Chorizo y Huevos:
D;inch thick. Pan fry over medium heat in butter or
I;Sea salt
D;constantly, then pour into saucepan. Cook over moderately low heat,
D;hour, stirring often, then chill 1 hour. Process custard in ice cream
D;pot of boiling salted water and cook until leaves are tender but still
I;2 slices bacon, cooked crispy, and crumbled, optional  garnish
D;Chicken
I;1 tsp. baking soda
I;Fresh thyme sprigs (optional)
D;Place rolls, cut down, in pan. Bake in hot oven (425 F) about 40
I;1/2 package active dry yeast
I;1 cup Cool Whip
I;small bag of macaroni
I;bits with the shears
I;Powdered sugar or crushed corn flakes (optional)
I;Grated zest of 1 lemon, then lemon cut into quarters
D;continuously until the egg is fully cooked and the pasta is al dente.
D;on each side or until done. Add beef broth to browned meatballs; simmer until
I;1 1-inch piece fresh ginger, finely chopped
D;Halloween Drink Recipes
D;Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Grease a 13-by-9-inch baking dish or a
I;6 cups water
I;Stuff to make the cornbread as directed - 2 eggs and milk
I;freshly ground black pepper to taste
I;1 pound boiled brisket from the stock, cut into 1-inch cubes
I;Garnish: 1 tablespoon blueberries and 2 sprigs parsley
D;too sweet and too soft. It's available at specialty foods shops and
I;Lettuce leaves
I;STREUSEL:
D;the not-so-cool parents on the block and try passing out
D;serving with 1 tsp caramel topping.
I;1 onion, chopped
I;4 lb chicken legs or mixed parts
D;then cover it with plenty more
D;Stir in vodka and serve over ice, with a stalk of celery or pickled
D;Filling: For butter-cream filling, boil sugar and water
I;4 large boneless pork chops, fat trimmed and reserved
D;cooking spray. Bake at 400 degrees for 20 minutes or until golden. Combine 2
I;Chives for garnish
D;24g fat
I;pastry for 2-crust 9-inch pie
D;a separate large bowl, combine the ground beef, 1 egg, breadcrumbs,
D;Beef n Vegetable Stir Fry for Two
D;wax paper and grease paper.
D;*** ** place chilies in medium bowl.
D;of the thigh shows clear - not bloody - juices. Remove the pan from
I;1 1/4 cups grated Parmesan cheese
D;To make the cheesecake, place the cottage chesse in a large piece of
D;blender; add cheese, egg, and lemon peel; chop coarsely. Add bread, garlic,
D;temperature before serving.
I;1 tablespoon honey
D;to 425 degrees. Whisk together milk egg yolks and lemon rind. Soak break
D;chives and serve warm.
I;1 (4 1/2-ounce) can chopped green chilies (drained)
D;a few minutes, and then put the whole mess in the food processor.
D;Chocolate Bands:
D;fluffy, scraping down side of bowl occasionally. Beat in egg and lemon
D;re-rolling scraps to make about 72 circles. Fit into bottoms and partway up
D;Cacciucco di Carne
I;1/4 cup (juice of 2 lemons) lemon juice
I;1"
I;8 bacon slices -- cooked and crumbled (1/2 lb)
I;2 cups pumpkin
D;say, we had a great visit and lots of good food. Cathy Seed of
D;Make Port Sauce:
D;S(mc formatted by): "chef Dave"
I;1 t Granulated gelatin
D;pour into cast iron skillet
I;interesting variation) salt
I;pinch of freshly ground pepper
D;one foot square with standing sides about an inch high. The "tray"
D;2. Turnips that are sufficiently young and tender need only be rinsed and
D;Bring broth to a boil; add chicken and cooked noodles to
D;minutes. Add the wine, etc(or beef broth will do) and boil for
D;Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan
D;If made ahead, let cool completely, wrap airtight, and refrigerate until
I;8 oz fresh thin Chinese egg noodles* (also called Hong Kong noodles;
D;I learned the basic recipe for this great cheesecake--one which I am
D;Lobster Newburg
D;Summer Slush
D;Barbecue Sauce
I;Olive oil
D;1. Preheat oven to 425°F.
I;Ghee Or Oil, for shallow frying
I;Pinch of dried oregano
D;mini muffin tins). Remove triangles from the pan and let cook on a cooling
I;1 8 ounce can Pillsbury Refrigerated
D;Once cooled, stir in the green onions, oregano, salt and pepper. Serve
I;1 1/2 cups shredded Monterey jack cheese
D;Gyoza skin, incidentally, is different from wonton skins. Wonton skins
D;when the thigh is pierced with a knife, about 1 hour.
D;By The Canadian Living Test Kitchen
D;then drain in a colander. Separate leaves, then cut off and reserve
I;3 avocados
D;Variation: Use 4 tablespoons pomegranate juice in place of the lemon
D;Filling Directions
I;1/2 carrot, peeled, coarsely chopped
I;Hamburgers
I;1/2 onions, sliced
D;lightly golden, 5 to 6 minutes. Do this in two batches, if necessary. With a
D;for about 6 to 8 minutes, stirring   occasionally, until the mixture has
I;Orange and lemon slices
I;1 cup All-purpose flour
I;lemon wedges, if desired
D;a burner, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add onion and rice.
D;Peanut Butter Pie
I;2 Tbs. sugar
I;Approximately 1/3 cup olive oil
D;Peach Schnapps French Toast
D;leaf. Serves 6
I;3 (8  ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
I;ground pepper
D;a bowl with a wire whisk. Pour over the broccoli and avocado. Serve
I;4 Tbsp Corn Starch
D;Baby Food Carrot Cake
I;12 (8 inch) flour tortillas
I;3 stalks celery, including leaves 
I;extra virgin olive oil
I;dash of black pepper
D;Wipe the liquid off the sids of the bag, then twist and squeeze until
D;from drying out.
D;then continue.
D;Recipe from Easy Home Cooking Best Recipes
D;tails-on prawns.
D;Heat oven to 350 F. Unroll dough and separate into 2 long rectangles; press
I;generous dash ground cinnamon
D;and vanilla. Transfer to a buttered 1 1/2 quart casserole dish. Set the
D;with pastry blender until mixture forms crumbs. Cover bottom of a
I;Vegetable oil for pan
D;kitchen and cake decorating supply stores.
I;drizzle of olive oil
I;for Lemon Salad
D;cinnamon and sugar together before adding to the biscuit dough.
I;1/2 lb. ground beef
I;1 15-ounce can Mexican-style diced tomatoes, undrained
I;Caramel Filling:
D;(1=easiest :: hardest=5)
D;Beef Brisket Braised With Dried Fruit, Yams And Carrots
D;with chopped cashews, if desired.
D;Whole Grain
D;Rinse and drain the beans and spelt. Put into a saucepan with the oil,
D;2. In a bowl, combine remaining ingredients. Spread mixture on bread
D;fire extinguisher
D;celery salt. Place vegetables and chicken stock in a soup kettle and
I;oil -- for deep-frying
D;Pasta with Beans
D;add the spinach and cook until tender. Add the meatballs and return
I;Thickener:
D;Winter-Spiced Molten Chocolate Cakes With Rum-Ginger Ice Cream
D;vanilla extract.
I;1 tablespoon capers, drained
I;1 teaspoon grated Parmesan cheese
D;be lumpy. Pour batter into greased 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2
I;crust.
D;Reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 1- 2 hours. Remove chicken and
I;3/4 cup vegetable oil
D;Serve sauce over chicken pastries.
D;cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Add reserved 1/4 cup pecans
I;1/4 Teaspoon Fresh ground pepper
I;1 teaspoons salt
I;cooked rice
D;oven
D;1/2 teaspoon vanilla.  Spread into pan.  Bake for 35 minutes until
I;1 Md Onion -- chop
I;1/4 cup fresh lemon juice, divided
D;of oven with water 3 or 4 times at 5 minutes intervals. (When spritzing,
D;3 quart soup pot. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer. Meanwhile,
I;-up to 4 cups
D;Put celery and carrots in broth. Cook until tender (4-5 minutes)
I;1 1/2 cups whipping cream
D;before adding the next one. (I always break the eggs into a cup first
I;sour cream for garnish, optional
D;continue as per recipe.
D;tablespoons sugar in a small bowl. Stir in melted butter with a fork
D;the ice cream.
D;terrific!  I really want this recipe.  The wasabi and ginger don.t stand
I;grated parmesan cheese
D;the chicken breasts and place approximately 1/3 cup filling under the skin.
I;1 teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 1 tablespoon water or cranberry juice
D;for 25 minutes.
I;1 cup boiling water
D;Butter Chicken From the Rajdoot Restaurant
D;Make Filling:
I;2 Oz Feta cheese -- 1/4" cubes
D;completely on rack.
D;Heat oven to 350 F. In a large bowl mix brown sugar, sugar, bananas,
D;learning to accept other people
I;salt and red pepper to taste
D;than you'll need for the sandwiches, but it's a good idea to have extra
I;1 Egg
D;muffins.
D;From: "Juliet S. Patel" <julietspatelji@carrier.kiev.ua>
D;12x6 inch oblong. Place the cooled filling on the rolled out pastry
I;Ground black pepper
I;2 Carrots
D;Note: Freezes well. 
I;GLAZE:
D;. Filled varenikis can be frozen 1 month. Freeze on a tray until
D;105-115 degrees. Add yeast from hot roll mix, stir to
I;1/4 cup walnuts (broken up as much or as little as you want)
D;Marinate overnight, turning once or twice. Prepare grill with medium hot
D;with salt and pepper. In the now-empty small bowl, combine the melted
I;Bread Pudding:
I;1 cup Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
D;Ready In: 1 Hour
D;fill center of meat with mashed potatoes. Surround edges with beans, beets or
D;Today, I will pass along the
D;Savoury Chops Casserole
I;---Filling Topping---
D;in a bowl in the middle and serve.
I;1c chopped broccoli
I;halves and/or thighs.
I;salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste
D;beating after
D;From: exotec <exotec@critterpath.com>
I;Santa Fe Calabacitas
D;batter into funnel. Hold funnel above fryer,move finer. As batter
I;5 tablespoons Irish whiskey
D;broth and simmer about 5 minutes.
D;glaze; remove from pans. Makes 1 dozen.
D;Serves: 6
I;Salt and freshly ground white pepper
I;1 1/2 lbs. ground beef
I;24 ounces nonfat cottage cheese, such as Light and Lively Free
D;Cook pasta according to package; drain.
I;8 whole cloves - tied into a small square of cheesecloth
D;Athenian Shrimp In Tomato And Feta Sauce
D;Honey Ginger-Glazed Carrots
D;mixer with dough hook. Add enough flour 1 cup at a time to form smooth
I;8 large eggs
D;(chili paste can be prepared 1 day ahead.
D;8 hours. Carefully slice each roll into 24 slices about 1/2" thick. Place
I;2 c. sugar
D;In large pot cook everything except for meat, green
D;completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and
D;crumbs, 2 eggs and garlic, parsley, oregano, salt and pepper.
D;Dip sliced bread in mixture.
I;1/4 teaspoon salt, optional
D;after the second rising instead of forming braided loaves, as is
D;1/2 Fat; 3 1/2 Other Carbohydrates.
D;15 minutes, then add the eggs. Adjust the seasonings.
D;delicious as the lemon flavor
D;Yield: about 10 servings (M).
D;Bake at 350 for 30 minutes in greased, 9-inch-square pan. Cool. Dust with
D;20 minutes until set.
D;for praline topping. Then in a 1-quart saucepan, boil
D;Simple Chicken Noodle Soup
D;4th layer: (combined)
D;or towels. Dust with powdered sugar.
I;1/2 large Green Bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped
D;Jack Frost
I;garlic
I;8 chicken breast halves bones removed but with skin
D;and continue baking 15 minutes or until done. To prepare gravy, combine
I;combination)
I;1/4 cup diced sweet yellow pepper
I;fresh dill sprigs
I;This is a very quick dessert to do and it can be done with almost any
D;bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until chicken is very tender
D;the Ba'al Shem Tov (Master of the Good Name). By the time of his death
D;Melt suet or heat the oil in a heavy 3-quart (or larger) pot over
I;bread stuffing
I;1/2 cup Apple Butter
I;3 tablespoons butter or margarine
D;Hotel Roanoke Peanut Soup
I;10 avocados
D;Bake time: 55 minutes
I;2 Teaspoons salt
I;2 Tbsp cayenne (1 Tbsp for mild version)
D;I found this recipe for brandied fruit starter but wondered whether or not
I;2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese
I;Watercress or arugula, to line salad plates
D;Recipe from Campbell's
D;speed until just combined well. Divide batter between pans and bake in
D;Cook chicken until meat is no longer pink.
D;Mix together the soy sauce, garlic, ginger, oil and sherry.
D;feels dense.
D;of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, then remove top of
D;sure to freeze the scoops of ice cream overnight before dipping and
I;1/2 teaspoon chili powder
I;vanilla cake frosting
I;1/4 cup Italian bread crumbs
I;3/4 lb Okra
D;Makes about 3 cups.
I;Vanilla
D;roast chicken, meat, or cholent.
D;on low
D;constantly until melted. Remove from heat and stir in cereal and coconut.
I;Two 8-ounce packages cream cheese, at room  temperature
I;coarsely grated (1 cup)
D;syrup. Spread 2 cups mousse over. Top with third cake layer, cut side
D;Submitted to HomeCooking by Lucy Dowd
D;F, or until the meat is very crisp.
I;butter
D;minutes or until pasta is al dente, and meatballs are no longer pink
D;Cook macaroni according to package directions; drain.
I;Splash of Tabasco Source to add extra taste (optional)
D;stir until mixed well and heated through, do not let it boil.
D;Refrigerate just until chocolate begins to set but is still very
I;FILLING
I;6 tablespoons cognac or other good brandy, divided
D;boil. Reduce heat and simmer gently uncovered over medium-low heat; stirring
I;1 Tbsp Oil
D;pan.
D;pepper, white vinegar, and water to cover the vegetables. Sprinkle
D;spiced fruit.
D;oven and from water bath; cool slightly. Drizzle bread pudding with Caramel
D;toasted bread trangles. Makes 6 servings.
I;For the filling:
I;1/4 cup Tequila
D;Slide dough onto a large tray
I;Baked Potatoes With Leek Bacon and Cheese FillingFrances
I;drained and bones removed
D;Arrange stuffed cabbage rolls, seam sides down, in 1 layer over sauce
D;this tender meat."
I;1 cup milk 
I;1 medium onion -- chopped
D;Note: Pauline Testerman says she uses frozen corn, which she chops a little.
I;Shells from 2 lb. 16 - 20 count shrimp (or 4 cup water and 4 cup
D;Place chicken, onion, celery leaves in a pot. Cover with water and
I;2 T. dry mustard
I;If you don't want to do the squash add 2 more sweet potatoes. Great for
D;mixture at least 4 times during cooking, until the juices run clear
I;Salt and rod pepper to taste
D;vanilla. Mix until batter is well blended.
I;2 teaspoons cinnamon
D;peanuts. Spoon ham mixture evenly into biscuits cups.
I;2 Tbsp milk
D;hot or cold
D;cook for 15 more minutes. Serve hot
I;Cut larger beets in half, so all are of uniform size.
D;until melted and smooth. Remove chocolate from over water. Cool to luke
I;For Port Sauce:
D;before serving.
D;and toss to combine. Pour custard over croissant-apricot mixture, pressing down
D;Sift powdered sugar over chocolate curls before serving cake.
D;Serve over rice or noodles
D;I fed them to my day care kids and they loved them.  I guess that is a
I;Batter
I;tablespoons cold water
D;Transfer to a 3-1/2 qt slow cooker.
D;13-by-9-inch Pyrex baking pan with vegetable cooking spray. Set aside.  In a
D;to a boil. Cook 2 minutes or until slightly thick. Brush muffins with lemon
I;Atkinized BBQ Sauce
D;Garnish: confectioners sugar for dusting
I;1/4 tsp dry crushed red pepper
I;2/3 Cup cocoa
D;strips, the remaining butter,
D;moist cheese attached. Remove the cheesecake from the oven, lift it out
D;mixer beat eggs until thickened slightly and lemon colored (about 3
D;Makes 12 sandwiches.
D;pepper. Add chicken to skillet;sauté until outside is white, about 1
I;3/4  cup granulated sugar
D;half. Cut each fig lengthwise into 5 slices. Arrange orange slices, cut
I;1 tablespoon oil 
D;Combine 1/2 pound lean ground beef, 1 egg (slightly beaten), 4
I;2 tablespoons dried basil
I;Melted chocolate
I;2 pkgs. low-caloric vanilla-flavoured pudding mix
D;Remove chicken from broth. When cool enough to handle,
D;Servings: 4 main-course servings or 8 first-course servings 
I;minced parsley
I;2 1/2 cups beef stock or canned unsalted beef broth
D;Serves 4 to 6
D;1 pistachio-coated truffle on each of 8 plates and serve.
D;zucchini and the remaining 2 carrots into thin strips and add to the
I;Calories 110 Fat 0g Calories from fat 0% Cholesterol 0mg Protein 0.6g
I;1-1/2 cups finely chopped toasted pecans
D;Insert 4 whole cloves in each peach half; place in pan between meat patties.
I;3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
D;want a lighter-colored soup, peel the onions and remove the chicken as
I;1/8  teaspoon vanilla
I;500g (1lb) broccoli (calabrese or purple sprouting)
D;Makes enough for one 7-inch cake
I;16 sweet cherries,  pitted and halved
I;salt and freshly-ground black pepper to taste
I;1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
D;think, stir in some water.
I;1 1/2 cups (6 oz.) shredded Swiss cheese, divided
I;1-1/2 lb. boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into bite-sized pieces
D;Place ricotta in a sieve lined with cheesecloth, place in refrigerator,
D;Stir in pepper, evaporated milk, cheese and shrimps during last hour
I;1/2 ts Caraway Seeds
D;distribute the marinade. Chill for 8 hours or overnight, turning bag
D;4. Alternately add the flour in three additions and the milk in two,
D;stir fry for 2 minutes over
D;and let the ricotta drain for several hours or overnight.
D;Royal Granola
D;doubled in size, 30-45 minutes. Preheat oven to 375 degrees
I;6      cups          chicken broth
D;16 servings.
I;4 tsp. oil
I;Apricot jam
D;Is it ironic that October is also Dental Hygene month?
D;sugar, and process for a few seconds to blend. Scrape down the bowl
D;Saturated Fat 1 g
I;Vegetable oil, for frying
I;3/4 c. shrimp
I;500 g (17 /12 oz) green beans, trimmed and blanched
D;the batter into a well-greased 8 1/2 x 13-inch pan.
D;thick.
D;prepared crust. Top with reserved stuffing. Bake 40-45
D;Sprinkle with cheese. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until cheese is melted; cut
D;Apple Slump
D;heavy pot.
I;1 tablespoon Grand Marnier, other orange liqueur, or orange juice
I;1 1/4 cups sugar
D;One meatball is approximately 2 tablespoons, but you can make them
D;-Cover the pot and place on the middle rack of the oven. Bake for 1½ to 2
I;1/4 lb. suet or 1/4 cup cooking oil
I;chocolate candy bars.
I;1 tablespoon oregano
D;the other can of beans with the bean liquid in a blender
I;Zest of 2 lemons
D;Fat.
D;drained peaches.
I;1 jar (1 lb.) Ragu Cheesy! Double Cheddar Sauce
I;Serve these braised thighs whole, or shred the meat, discarding the bones,
I;1 tablespoon liquid smoke
I;1 (15oz) can tomatoes, undrained (I bought the already diced)
D;Recipe from Recipe Arts Finder
I;1 pound red beets
I;1 tsp olive oil
I;3 pounds boneless lamb shoulder, trimmed of fat and cut into 2-inch pieces
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding05.html
D;While chocolate mixture cools, whisk together flour, baking soda, and
D;sharp knife under hot water, then shake off (but do not dry) before
I;sliced
D;Put raw rice, soup, onion and other ingredients in 9X13 baking dish. Place
D;8 slices.
I;2 cups flour
I;1/2 cup American whiskey
D;sauce. Cover and simmer 5-10 minutes. Makes 4 servings.
I;clam juice if no shells)
D;* Cranberry-orange Butter - Place 1 small unpeeled orange (diced),
I;1 cup Sliced celery with tops
D;over noodles.
D;Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center
I;1 can (5 ounces) evaporated milk
D;and salt. Chill.
I;Doughnuts:
D;CANDY BAR SMOOTHIES
D;slow cooker into 1 quart saucepan. Heat to boiling over
I;1 1/2 cups frozen whole-kernel corn, thawed
I;1 celery stick for garnish
I;3/4 lb. red snapper fillet
I;1/8 t. savory
D;crisp
D;and sides of cake. Reserve 24 almond slices. Press remaining almonds
D;To make this bread easier to prepare, shape the dough into two loaves
D;a boil. Remove from heat and pour over D-Zerta, stirring until D-Zerta
I;8 flour tortillas, lowfat or regular, warmed
D;serve. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate before
I;Chopped Mushrooms
D;Subject: Appelkoek
D;5. Bake for 50 to 55 minutes or until the cake tests done. Cool on a wire
I;BUTTE RCREAM FILLING
D;Recipe By: Barbara Taub
D;Drop ball off fork into bowl with almonds, using hands to turn to coat.
I;1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
I;Recipe By :Michele Wilson
I;1/2 cup milk
I;Mix all the following: Store and seal tightly
D;7-inch springform pan. Make crust: Combine graham-cracker crumbs and 2
I;16 oz. crushed tomatoes.  two cans Italian style stewed tomatoes or 4 cups
I;1 cup sun flower seeds
D;remaining tortilla chips. 6 servings.
I;2 11-ounce cans mandarin oranges, in light syrup
I;1 sm. pie pumpkin
I;6 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
I;Bloody Mary Punch
D;aluminum foil. Place dish in larger roasting pan. Add enough hot water to
I;Special equipment: 8 to 10 (6-inch-long) wooden skewers, soaked in
D;Bake for 40 to 45 minutes, until the cheesecake is set but a toothpick
I;fruit or confectioners' sugar (see below)
D;- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
D;Buttermilk Pancakes With Maple Syrup Apples
I;1 cup (2 sticks) butter or margarine, softened
D;low heat until cheese is melted. Stir small amount of
D;Sprinkle with icing sugar while still warm.
D;pan with foil.
I;Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
D;be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
I;1 pinch celery salt
I;---Ham and Green Chile Filling---
D;Add shrimp and saute until just pink, about 3 minutes.
I;2 large orange, peeled, sectioned, and cut into bite-size
D;Spanish Sauce
D;mixture in saucepan and cook over moderately low heat, stirring
I;1 tablespoon finely chopped peeled fresh gingerroot
D;bowl occasionally. Beat in melted chocolate, then powdered sugar in 3
D;confectioners' sugar, cut and serve.
I;dash of salt
I;3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
D;simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water; cool.
I;6 cups cubed bread (French bread or a chewy, rustic white bread is good)
D;garlic, poultry
D;Red Sauce:
D;coat them with the savory base. Add the wine and vinegar and bring to a
I;soy
I;1 envelope unflavored gelatin
I;2 c Milk 2 c Water 3 lg Eggs fresh 1 tb Lemon juice
I;14 cup snipped chives
D;It's great with or without the Caramel Sauce (see recipe); if you're short on
D;Mix it all together until smooth. Serve chilled. Makes 6 servings and
I;Sea Salt
D;Agnello Brodettato
D;egg, and cheese makes these meatballs crusty.
I;1 tbl. grated onion
D;In large bowl, combine egg, ground beef, bread crumbs, Worcestershire
D;Divide among plates.
I;nutmeg, to taste
I;1/4 cup butter or margarine melted
D;Pasta
D;skillet, quickly cook steaks in olive oil on one side. Remove steaks and spread
D;Brazilian Peach Cake
D;cabbage leaves in same manner, using less filling for smaller leaves.
D;Make ice cream:
I;Fresh mint sprigs (optional)
I;1/4 cup carob powder
D;requests to make them for gifts!
D;Hope this is what you are looking for.
I;1 Bottle clam juice -- (8 oz.)
I;1/2 md Head cabbage
I;1/4 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper
D;wish, by lightly sweetened whipped cream and/or sectioned oranges.
I;and washed
I;pinch of oregano
I;equivalent of 2 eggs (PLEASE use pasteurized* egg-substitute.
I;wide
I;(No baking powder is correct)
I;8 ounces lowfat cream cheese, such as Philadelphia 1/3 Less Fat
D;serve
D;directions. Drain.
D;and filled with cranberry misture and walnuts and heated. I din.t
D;Add cheese, cooked chicken, and tomatoes.
D;There are several varieties of mustard cabbage; for this recipe we used
I;1/2 medium Lemon, zest and juice it
D;Chakchouka (Tunisian Cooked Vegetables with Eggs)
D;Farm Style Baked Stuffed Pumpkin
D;towel . Let rise in warm area until almost doubled, about 30 minutes.
D;sugar and butter; mix well. Press evenly over bottom of pan. Bake in
I;About 1 quart low-sodium chicken broth or vegetable broth
I;16 oz New York Extra Sharp Cheddar (coarsely shredded)
D;Cooks' notes:
D;Enjoy!
D;Source: Baking with the St. Paul Bread Club by Kim Ode (Minnesota Historical
D;1. Mix the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and allspice
I;1/4 cup margarine (canola or peanut oil might work)
D;Serves: 4
D;mixing only until blended. Batter should be smooth.
D;Makes about 2 quarts.
I;1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
I;1 3/4-ounce package dried porcini mushrooms
I;2 tablespoons lemon juice
D;and  serve.
I;1 Tbsp. butter or margarine
D;dente, about 8 to 10 minutes. Drain and transfer to a serving bowl. Meanwhile,
D;butter in a small bowl until soft and light. Beat butter
D;Preheat oven to 300 F. and grease pans. Line bottoms with rounds of
D;Dietary Fiber 7 g
I;frozen candied sweet potatoes
I;1/2 cup Oil
D;the 2 cups water and lemon juice. Bring to a boil and remove from heat. Saute
D;powder, pepper and onion. Shape into 4 patties about 1
I;1 1/2 cups ripe plum tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and chopped
D;pie pan with pie crust.
D;4 servings
D;sauce, and ginger in a bowl.
D;Yields about 4.
D;a boil. Mix 3 or 4 eggs and 1/2 cup Romano in a small bowl. Pour
I;3 cans (13 3/4 ounces each) chicken broth 
D;3 to 4 hours. Prepare a hot charcoal fire. Season the meat with salt.
I;flakes
I;1/4 cup  orzo, broken up vermicelli, or broken up angel hair pasta
D;Barbecued Pot Roast
D;eat.
I;salt
D;10-15 minutes or until thickened. Serve with boiled potatoes or egg noodles.
I;1 Cup finely chopped onion
I;This is the brandied fruit recipe. I don't know that I would compare it to
D;coarse meal. Add ice water mixture; toss with a fork until moist. Divide dough
D;onion
D;On a hot grill, place the oysters and grill until they open, 5 to 8
D;Finely chop chocolate. In a 1 1/2- to 2-quart saucepan bring cream,
I;black pepper to taste
I;-1/4 Pound Mortadella
I;1/4 ts Garlic Powder
I;Reserved cooking water from the beans
I;chopped coriander
I;Spicy Garlic Ranch Dressing -- recipe follows
D;Recipe by: Chez Panisse Vegetables
I;10 shallots
I;1 package Pillsbury Hot Roll
D;Cat Head Biscuits
D;minutes or until pale golden.
D;a toothpick inserted into the center of a muffin comes out clean, about 20
I;salt and freshly ground pepper
D;wonderful spiced banana ice cream at bluestem, in Kansas City,
D;Place in tightly covered bowl; let stand in warm place. Cook meat; sauté onion.
I;cognac
D;just until heated through. Do not boil.
I;2 Tbsp Oil
D;ingredients, except slivered almonds and 2 tablespoons
D;Pre-heat oven to 400 degrees
D;slice. Top each with rounded teaspoonfull cheese mixture.
D;remaining egg substitute, 1/2 teaspoon at a time, until they just hold
D;brown and add sliced mushrooms continuing to brown for a few
I;3 stalks Celery, diced
I;1 tablespoon butter.
D;12 to 16 vertical wedges, but do not cut through bottom root end.
I;1/4 cup (or less) instant vegetable boullion
I;1.5 kg Beef
D;Make the sauce:
I;splashes of light soy sauce
D;Yield: 2 Servings
D;Bake until nicely browned and crispy, about 15 minutes. Remove from
D;Return to heat and cook until flames subside.
I;2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
I;1/2 t brown sugar
D;You can also use this filling for egg rolls - simply wrap in egg roll
I;1-1/2 cups Fresh or frozen wild blueberries
D;Big Bob Gibson's Alabama White BBQ Sauce Recipe
I;3 cups sugar
I;3 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
I;sprinkling of powdered sugar for garnish
D;sets overnight.
D;down. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread remaining mousse over top
I;Basically, it's hummus with eggplants instead of chickpeas.  Here's what
D;"A wonderful light dessert. Good with apples, pears, blueberries,
I;4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
D;tablespoons lemon juice and 1-1/2 tablespoons sugar in small saucepan; bring
D;BEEF TORTILLA PIZZA
D;praline and grind it in a blender for a few seconds.
I;6 skinless boneless chicken breast halves
D;Attention, all cheesecake lovers! This is a serious cheesecake; a
D;Makes about 6 dozen appetizers
D;Place muffin pan on a baking sheet. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden
I;2 whole onions, unpeeled
I;1 clove garlic -- peeled
D;Blueberry Marshmallow Sauce
I;pudding mix (4 serving size)
I;1 T butte
D;Makes 6 servings.
I;1 cup chopped Green Onions, with green tops included
D;Helen's Cabbage Soup
D;also use 1 tablespoon of bottled fresh ginger, a relatively new
I;2 teaspoons all-purpose flour
D;Chocolate Charlotte Russe
D;Transfer pan to wire rack.  Run thin knife around inside edge of pan.
I;memmi
I;2-1/4 lbs. butternut squash, peeled, seeded and cut into 1 inch cubes
I;2 slices Old English Cheese finely
D;Add the peas and mix well. Pour in the hot water, if using, add the
D;pepper to taste.
I;1/4 cup grated onion
I;1 can (7.5 ounces) pineapple tidbits or crushed
I;1 tablespoon Old Bay seasoning
D;in a slow stream, whisking. Pour custard back into saucepan and cook
D;Sweet Baby Media Recipes
I;1/2 cup Pillsbury BEST All Purpose or Unbleached Flour
D;Remove from fat, drain.
D;cooked pasta.
I;3/4  cup dairy sour cream (optional)
D;Calabacita con Pollo
D;Add raisins and soak for 2 - 4 hours
D;-To make the filling, in a large bowl whisk together the pumpkin, sugar and
D;turning once.
D;Line a shallow 23cm cake tin with baking parchment.
I;1/2 pint (about) chocolate ice cream
I;1 15 1/2 ounce can or jar spaghetti sauce with meat
D;ingredients except the chicken. Mix well. Season highly. Loosen skin from
I;5 oz can flaked lobster
I;1/2 cup soy sauce
I;1 gallon orange juice
D;room temperature, stirring occasionally, then chill, covered, until
D;1/2 inch in diameter. Place 3 at a time on cookie
D;the crumbs.
I;1/2 lb ground beef 
I;1 teaspoon dried parsley
D;Preheat the oven to 375 F. Toast the nuts until fragrant, about 7 or 8
D;8 X
I;4 t Baking Powder
I;To Cook Broccoli:
D;cook on high for 6 minutes. Stir wine into the rice. Cook on high for 10
I;cooked egg noodles as an accompaniment
D;blended & smooth. Push the contents toward the corner. Snip about ½-inch off
D;cream) can be made 2 days ahead and chilled, layered between sheets of
I;1 small onion, chopped fine (about 1/3 cup)
D;in a  sealed jar.
I;powdered sugar ; for dusting
D;For cakes:
D;chicken pieces and top with the French fried onions. Bake at 350°F for 1 hour.
D;muffin pans, pressing gently into bottom and up sides of
I;water, according to how thick you want sauce
D;quickly, scoop out 8 round balls each of vanilla, coffee, and chocolate
D;Brandied British Turkey Crown Roast
D;Source: http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding09.html
D;5. Cook slowly over low heat. When underside surface is set, lift
D;cucumbers.
I;1/2 cup finely chopped sweet onion, such as Vidalia
I;1 Toppings
D;Add 1 1/4 cups water to the pan with the salt. Cover tightly, turn the
D;some supermarkets. This recipe makes about a dozen more florentines
D;Sexual Chocolate
D;Nutrition Facts
D;"This is a basic recipe and stands alone for chicken - go from there to
I;7 cups rolled oats
D;very low. Serve with vegetable dippers, bread sticks or cubes of French
D;Heat oven to 350 F.
D;the remaining crumbs up the sides of the pan. It is not necessary for
I;1/2 medium onion, thinly sliced and separated into rings
I;Large pinch dried oregano
D;fondue into 3 cup mold which has been lined with plastic wrap. Chill
I;6 cup short-grain white rice -- cooked and cooled
D;and seasonings.
D;use.
I;1/4 t. MSG (optional)
I;pork roast
D;Cream margarine and 1 cup sugar together in bowl until
D;Shaker Applesauce (with dried apples)
I;3 tablespoons unsalted butter
D;Lightly flour working surface, roll one sheet of puffed pastry with a
D;large baking dish. Boil sauce until reduced to 3 1/2 cups, about 20
I;8 ounces fresh or frozen scallops
D;of beans and chicken broth. simmer for 5 minutes. Puree
D;Reduce heat and simmer gently, stirring frequently, for 15 minutes. Remove from
D;dipping.
D;yolks Mix 1/3 of the hot liquid with the yolks, whisking. This warms the
I;Grated carrot (amount optional)
I;1-3 oz. pkg. Jello (raspberry)
D;Coconut -- fresh ground
D;ample flavor.
D;Yield: 6 servings
I;2 cloves garlic, minced a few strands of saffron, crumbled
D;Cut 2-inch rounds and place them 1 inch apart on the
D;doesn't like cabbage at all!
D;With large spatula, gently stir in liqueur, orange zest, and vanilla,
I;juice of 3 lemons
I;1lime -- sliced thinly
D;Serves: 8
D;Melt margarine in 3 quart saucepan over medium high heat.
I;1 cup (2 sticks) butter, diced, left out until room temperature
D;and pepper. Spread them out in an even layer on a baking sheet and roast
D;cheese with vanilla, orange extract, lemon juice and food coloring in a 
I;Small meatballs, marble size
I;1 pound lean ground beef
I;Butter for casserole dish
D;Groundnut Soup
D;Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally into 3 layers. Place bottom
D;Sprinkle with nuts, if desired. Cover with foil; bake 30
I;2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
D;cooking
D;vinegar. Bring to boil. Cover; place in oven and roast until veal is
D;for 30-35 minutes or until cake tester inserted in center comes out
D;and top is golden.
I;Fat to fry
D;green onions.
D;once, add chocolate, which may be slightly warm. Again, beat only until
D;slotted spoon, transfer the lamb to a large plate.
D;ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Rewarm over low heat just until warm and
D;cut shortening into dry ingredients
D;from heat, cover and let stand a few minutes until eggs are set.
D;Title: Whole Wheat Pizza
D;I posted this recipe, along with my page
I;1/4 teaspoon chili powder
D;Beet Bread
I;1 1/2 cups shelled natural pistachios, chopped
D;Heat oven to 400 degrees. In large nonstick skillet, brown ground beef over
D;Serve hot with crusty bread. Sprinkle parmesan cheese on top. 
D;green onions, celery, ground beef, tomato sauce, liquid
D;the stuff, and stir over medium heat until simmering.
I;1 teaspoon dried oregano leaves
D;medium bowl, combine ground beef, 1 cup Parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs
I;2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
D;This is a recipe I have made many times. It's a very
D;Serving Size 2 turnips
I;1/2 To 1 tb Dried Oregano
I;1 tablespoon sesame seed
D;until mixture comes to simmer. Gradually whisk hot cream mixture into
D;cooled, put a plate or serving piece you will use upside down on top of
I;3 ounces can sliced mushrooms -- drained
I;1/2 tsp Baking soda
D;Put the cream cheese and the sugar into the bowl of a mixer and
D;For advance preparation:
D;bundt pan well, then dust with 3 tablespoons cocoa powder, knocking out
D;lastly the crushed chips. Serve on hot biscuits or toast.
I;1 large baguette, cut into four (5-inch-long) sections and split in half
I;1 zucchini
D;inches thick. Sprinkle 1/4cup brown sugar over bottom of well-oiled
D;4 ingredients, pour mixture into pan making sure not to pour on rub.
D;with wooden picks.
D;In a bowl, combine beef, onion, garlic, rice, egg, salt and pepper
I;-drained
I;20 cashew
D;Melt the butter on med heat. Add the rest of the ingred. and bring to a
D;Combine cocoa and boiling water, stirring until smooth; set aside. 
D;the cake pan, so that the face of the plate covers the open portion of
I;Prep: 15 minutes; Cook: 45 minutes
I;1/4 tsp grated gingerroot or 1/2 tsp chopped pickled ginger.
D;[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
D;minutes).
I;1 teaspoon lemon juice
D;ingredients.  Easy way is to put in crockpot day before, cook on high for
D;Comments
D;Turn into chilled crust. Gently twist pan from side to side to level
D;Fold in half.
D;From BHG Cooking Mexican
D;I went to a Christmas gift exchange party one time where everyone was
D;Makes 10 to 12 servings.
D;medium bowl.  Add dry ingredients to the butter and mix well.  Mix in 
D;tender.
I;2 tablespoons Tabasco garlic pepper sauce
I;style ribs
D;We made a terrific stuffed Breast of Lamb, and think it one of the best
I;1/2 cup margarine or butter, melted
D;slices
D;1. In a medium saucepan cook red pepper, green pepper, and green onion
D;Better Homes and Gardens (1970)
D;your butcher or in your blender or food processor. The addition of bread,
D;the
D;herbs and serve.
I;Optional: 1 cup cooked pasta, such as orzo, mezzi tubetti, conchiglie
I;Cinnamon, to taste
D;Carbohydrates.
D;1 teaspoon of water over it. Cover tightly with foil. Bake garlic for
I;chopped tomato; (optional)
D;Harvard Beets
D;chunks. Place chicken pieces, onion, celery, carrot, garlic, salt, and
I;1 can crushed tomatos (we use Rotel Mexican style)
D;to medium. Cook, stirring frequently, at a slow boil for 10
I;Salt, pepper and hot sauce, to taste
I;-1/4 Pound Ham
D;each egg half.
D;cook for 15 more minutes. Serve hot.
I;1 8-1/2 ounce can mixed
D;===================================================================================================
D;skillet, cook ground beef and garlic over medium high
I;4 cups(1#) chopped apples, unpeeled
I;1 cup brown sugar
I;1/4 cup all-purpose flour
D;For Black Pearl Ganache:
I;3/4 teaspoon prepared mustard
D;maker according to manufacturer's instructions. Spread ice cream over
D;shallots and fennel seeds, stirring often, for 5
I;2 tablespoons honey
I;1 mizuna, baby
I;1 small onion, diced
D;and allow to drain.
I;1 1/2 cups whole bran cereal
I;Chocolate
I;1 can (4 1/2 oz) tiny shrimps -- undrained
D;Gradually
D;For blondies:
I;1/4 c Sweet and sour mix
D;a particular variety of pandanus.
I;2 cups cut up cooked chicken
I;1 1/2 cups freshly cut corn kernels (or substitute frozen)
D;package directions; drain. Skim fat from broth and discard.
D;over tart before serving.
D;speed.
D;mixer. Form into 12 meatballs. brown meatballs in 4 T. butter. Simmer for 5 min.
D;sheet.
I;liquid smoke to taste
D;egg, then vanilla. Sift flour, baking soda, and salt over; beat just
I;Spices
D;Some Diabetic Recipes
D;Saute medium sized chopped onion in butter. Add a couple handfuls
I;Flavored Morsels
I;8 ounces Ziti, Mostaccioli or other medium pasta shape, uncooked
I;1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
D;incorporated. Cover surface of custard with a round of wax paper and
D;before cutting.
D;Preheat oven to 350°F.
D;2 cups water and shortening. Stir  in yeast mixture. Gradually add flour
D;1-quart saucepan over moderate heat, stirring until butter is melted
I;1 large tomato, seeded and chopped for garnish, optional
D;If you want more detail:
I;1/2 Green chilli 227 1/2 g Tomatoes 1/2 Onion
D;-Place in an oiled bowl, turning to coat top. Cover with plastic wrap and
I;2 - 4 large slices provolone cheese
I;cream)
D;(If you want to make the batter in a food processor, put the chocolate in
D;Sprinkle on the flour and cook for 3 minutes, stirring
D;Cherry Chocolate Candy-Topped Cookies
I;Cassoulet Toulousain
D;beans and cabbage.
D;/ 350 0F / Gas 4 for 25-30 minutes or until well-risen, golden brown and
D;Chill
D;Source: Prevention's Fit and Fast Meals in Minutes by Linda Gassenheimer
D;Makes about 20 cups
D;Hello Everyone!!
I;1 tablespoon lemon juice
D;foil. Crimp the foil around the top of the pan so that it is
I;The first one is the closest I could find to Kathy's
I;1/2 teaspoon pepper
D;3/4 cup pecans, bread cubes, allspice and salt; stir into celery. Fill
D;Joan In Oregon
I;1 1/2 to 2 lbs. medium shrimp --shelled and deveined
D;before serving, combine flour, butter and cream. Stir into fish mixture.
D;Cut dough into 4 equal pieces. Turn pasta machine to widest setting.
D;powder and salt. Using funnel with about 3/8 inch diameter spout
I;1 1/2 cups vodka
I;1/4 cup light or dark brown sugar
I;Apple Lasagna
D;In a deep bowl, using mixer combine cream cheese, sugar and milk. Add 3/4 cup
I;Amaretto sauce (recipe follows)
I;1/4 cup finely chopped olives
D;Percent Calories from Protein 8%
I;1/2 Lb. Ham Chunks
I;1 cup whole wheat flour
I;Parsley flakes
I;Grated zest of 1 orange, then orange cut into quarters
D;Remove skillet from heat.
D;before they go trick-or-treating. This will prevent
I;Chocolate topping:
D;combined.  Pour filling into crust.
D;Lemon Broccoli Soup
I;garlic salt to taste
D;surface. Divide dough into 2 equal portions. Divide each portion into 3
D;Candied Fig, Hazelnut and Orange Cheesecake with Port Sauce
D;until smooth. Gradually incorporate remaining flour until dough is easy to
I;2 cups cooked corn (I have used fresh and frozen, both are great)
D;ice cream scoop or round 1 tablespoon measuring spoon and working
I;1/2 t Vanilla
D;marshmallows; cook until melted. Remove from the heat; stir in vanilla.
I;2 teaspoons dried rosemary
D;not authentic but tastes better.
D;into 8 wedges.
I;for the noodles)
D;with
D;CHOCOLATE TIPPED LOGS:
D;tablespoons butter.
D;Punch down dough. Cover with plastic and clean kitchen towel and let
D;and cinnamon, and set aside.
I;1 teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 1 tablespoon water
I;1 small can tomato sauce
D;a light salad.
D;degrees until brown, approximately 30 minutes.
I;2 small Garlic cloves
D;"For this wonderful dip, fresh broccoli is combined with sour cream, lemon
I;1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
D;hour take out chicken and peel from the bone, add orzo cook for 5 min
D;Serve with Parmesan cheese. 
I;7 qts water
I;Cook's ; notes
I;1  tablespoon water
D;cake and invert onto plate. Repeat with remaining cakes. Dust with
D;Makes about 4 dozen.
D;Here is a recipe that I've used with great success. It comes from a
I;Makes 1 1/2 gallons
I;1 pound Beef Stew Meat
D;Stir together cream, milk, brown sugar, cinnamon stick, star anise,
D;Makes 12 to 14 servings
I;Walnut Apple Cake
I;1/2 package dry Onion Soup Mix
I;lime wedges, optional
D;separate course.
I;1 teaspoon maple flavoring
D;JK's Original Western Wings
D;individually wrapped well in plastic wrap. Let soften in refrigerator 5
D;brown. Add the chopped onions to the saucepan. Cook,
D;-Generous Amount Jay's Muffuletta Salad
I;1 1/2  tablespoons  thinly sliced scallions (greens and whites)
I;1 5-pound veal shoulder clod roast, tied to hold shape
D;in the bottom of the pan.
D;over moderately low heat, stirring with a wooden spoon, until it
I;8 oz. water
I;Coarse salt and freshly milled black pepper
I;3/4 t. salt  (if use seasoned flour don't need so much)
D;'pig out' on it.
I;1/2 cup Kraft Special Collection Sun-Dried Tomato Vinaigrette Dressing
D;10 minutes, whip eggs. Then add hot stock and mix well. Then add
I;10 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
D;stir in cheese.
D;Peel and slice carrots into long thin slices. Melt butter in medium-size
I;1 teaspoon salt
D;Mix hamburger, oatmeal, salt, pepper and 1/2 c. mushroom soup; form into six
D;3. Heat 1 1/2 t. butter in each section of the omelet pan.
D;cilantro leaves.
I;3 ounces shiitake mushrooms, finely chopped (1/2 cup)
D;Categories : Chicken & Poultry Casseroles
I;1 pint stout beer (we use Guinness, of course)
I;3 tablespoons packed dark brown sugar
I;2 tablespoons ground cumin
I;2/3 cup sugar
I;Spiced Fruit
I;1/2 cup diced sweet red pepper
I;1 15-ounce can tomato sauce
I;3 tablespoons long-grain rice
D;(not a lot as you will be adding liquid from veal).
D;salt and pepper to taste.
D;Makes 2 servings, each about 1/2 c. or 38 calories.
I;6 cups chicken broth
I;Grated zest of 2 large deep colored oranges
D;This is a vegetarian style -- most who have eated it don't miss the
I;3/4 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
D;Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream
D;chicken breast halves in the dish and sprinkle evenly with garlic slices. In a
D;with rice.
I;cooking time: 15 minutes
I;1/2 cup chopped sliced almonds, toasted and divided (about 2 ounces)
I;3 oz. Cream Cheese
I;Salt to taste
I;jalapeno peppers
I;2 sticks (8 ounces) unsalted butter, cut into 10 pieces, at room temperature
D;Apple Rolls
I;4 thin slices red onion, halved
I;2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
D;remove from pans, and cool completely on wire racks. Spread whipped cream 
D;10 minutes longer.
D;Source:
D;Peach Shortcake
I;1-1/2 cups hot mashed potatoes - without added milk or butter
I;Fluffy Nut Frosting:
D;NOT burn them.
D;dusty
I;1 oz White Creme de Cacao
D;kitchen
I;1 1/2-pint basket fresh raspberries
I;1 tsp pure vanilla
I;Juice 1/2 lemon
D;. Custard can be chilled in refrigerator up to 24 hours.
I;Paprika for garnish (optional)
I;whole fresh pineapple for serving -- optional
I;1 1/4 cups cake flour
D;and sugar is dissolved, 2 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in flour,
I;INGREDIENTS
D;juice, if desired, as this will give the dish addes zest.
I;1/2 c Instant nonfat dry milk
I;1 cup cashews
D;combined. Cover and cook on LOW about 4 hours or until
D;4 hours, depending on size.
I;3/4 cup sifted powdered sugar
D;45-50 minutes, until juice bubbles around edges and topping is golden
I;1 5.2-ounce package Boursin cheese with herbs and garlic, divided
I;1/2 cup very thinly sliced radishes
D;350 for 1 hour.
I;sifted powdered sugar
D;with lemon wedges.
D;us a valid email address!  Sigh.
I;and toasted
I;Basic Roll Dough:
D;then gradually add heavy cream, beating only until combined. All at
D;reserving 3 cups flesh.
D;Blueberry Drop Biscuits
D;Stir
D;Combine flour, oats, brown sugar, nuts,
D;Poland, Galicia, and the Ukraine were Hasidim.
D;Combine meats, egg, pepper, oregano, parsley, Parmesan and bread
I;1 8-ounce carton lemon low-fat yogurt
I;3 tablespoons honey
D;salt; stir into butter mixture alternately with sour cream, making three
D;parsley, capers, dash salt and dash pepper. Gently stir in shrimp and
I;1 12 ounce package Mrs Pauls
D;appetizer
D;Heat oven to 350 degrees. Spray 13 x 9 inch or 3 quart
I;1/2 tablespoon celery salt 
D;the cake pan completely. Invert the plate and pan at the same time and
D;Italian Anise Cookies (Angelonies)
D;and foods. It was among the Hasidim of Jerusalem that this distinctive
D;greased 9" pie plate; press on bottom and up side to
I;7 ounce (200gr) long beans, cut into about 2 inch (4-5cm) lengths
D;juice
I;3 ounces prosciutto or ham, chopped
D;Serves 16 or more.
I;into 1/2 inch rounds, coated with oil
D;Cheese-Shrimp Chowder
I;assembled 9 x 3-inch springform pan (mine is a wonderful non-stick,
D;Place 1 almond-coated ice cream truffle, 1 coconut-coated truffle, and
D;pan ready. Wrap the outside of the springform with heavy-duty aluminum
I;Pinch mace or nutmeg
I;1 3/4 cups chicken stock or reduced-sodium chicken broth (14 fl oz)
D;inches from a preheated broiler until cheese is lightly browned. Serves 4
D;Chop any unused leaves and reserved stem ends and stir into simmering
I;1/2 cup frozen corn (I have best results with Cascadian Farm)
D;absorb the flavors of the dressing.
I;olive oil
D;Categories: Fish
D;shreds and stick a nacho chip on top. Serve immediately.
D;Piadine Con Broccoli Di Rape
D;cake,
I;*bread will be a deeper red colour
I;Small cherry tomatoes
I;1 pinch black pepper
I;Confectioners' ; sugar powdered ; sugar in a Small ; bowl
I;3 cloves of garlic 
I;place
I;12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
D;For those less dedicated to authenticity, canned chicken broth and
D;with mushroom powder.
D;spoon.
I;Crockpot Lobster Newburg
I;1 whole chicken, cut up 
I;1 large tomato, diced
I;Green Onions sliced thin with tops
I;3 cups powdered sugar
I;2 tablespoons orange juice
D;beat until smooth.  Pour this mixture over the cake layer in the 
D;3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, whisking, until butter is
D;someone how you feel. DO IT!
I;8 ounces green or yellow beans, trimmed (250 g)
I;3 large Golden Delicious apples (about 1 1/2 pounds), peeled, cored,
I;1 Tbsp Salt
I;1 teaspoon kosher salt
D;each cavity. Bake in a moderate oven until vegetable is cooked. Serve on
I;Fine sea salt and freshly ground white pepper to taste
I;garnishes:
I;3/4 cup evaporated milk
D;Remove from heat and strain. Add peanut butter, celery
I;pinch salt
D;and sauce has heated through.  Trim excess fat from meat. Place in a large
D;one tablespoon of olive oil until they are cooked through. Drain
I;up to 1 cup water or milk.
I;Brown Rice Layer:
D;Preheat oven to 375 F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with
D;I got this recipe from a little cookbook I bought in Scotland many
D;saucepan and cook over low heat for approximately 1 hour,
D;stirred into the mix, or sausage and cheese, garlic and cheddar will
I;About 10 French prune plums or 6 Santa Rosa plums
I;11/2 cups dry white wine
D;Pre-packed cheese and crackers
D;at room temperature.
I;2 cups sugar
D;Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method
I;Cake
D;for 15 minutes more, or until internal temperature of 160 degrees is
I;Dash of ground black pepper
D;458mg Cholesterol; 4106mg Sodium. Exchanges: 11 1/2 Grain(Starch); 3 Lean
D;Pour over vegetables
D;Sugars: 1 g, Protein: 1 g Diabetic
D;a few pieces of chicken. Simmer about 15 minutes or until the
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. LINE 15 x 10-inch jelly-roll
D;in a 400 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
D;well. Stir in chicken broth and simmer for 30 minutes.
I;three cups chicken stock
I;1/2 c. peanut butter
I;1/2 pkg. of tofu - cut into 3/4 inch cubes
I;2 shallots, thinly sliced
D;* You may substitute margarine for butter.
D;-In the large bowl of an electric mixer, dissolve yeast in warm water. Stir
I;1 cup whole milk
D;350 for 30 minutes
I;1 clove garlic (minced)
I;2 medium-large onion, thinly sliced
D;aluminum foil and continue baking until bread pudding is golden brown on top and
I;1/2 to 3/4 cup grated Romano cheese
I;12 eggs
I;1 1/2 tablespoons sugar and the vanilla until it holds soft peaks. Slice
D;Drain and set aside until cool.
I;c Almonds; Blanched, Sliced
I;1/2     cup     additional chocolate chips -- melted
I;shredded fresh basil
D;simmer, uncovered, breaking up tomatoes into smaller pieces with a
D;with maple syrup.
D;shows
D;bowl. Mash or whip until just fluffy and combined. Do not over beat. Keep
I;dash lemon flavoring
I;(or frozen unthawed blueberries)
D;are not sweet.
D;aluminum foil. Fold each side in several times; you want a "tray" about
I;2 (15  ounce) cans mandarin oranges (in light syrup)
I;1/2 cup margarine or butter
D;in a tightly covered tin.
I;Chopped Celery opt.
D;Peach Crisp
I;1/2 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
D;Source: <http://www.recipezaar.com/67480>
I;steamed)
I;4 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
I;1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil or duck fat (or a combination of both)
D;to low and add cubes of Darigold fondue cheese, stirring until cheese is
I;sea salt to taste
I;toasted or raw cumin seeds
D;In a food processor, process the cookies until finely ground. Mueasure
D;Whisk eggs and sugar in large metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of
D;Potato and Sweet Pepper Omelet
I;1/2  cup low-fat milk
I;1 tablespoon baking powder
D;store at room temperature.)
D;hot or warm.
D;chopped chocolate. Set over hot water on low heat; stir often until
I;1 roasting chicken, about 5 pounds
I;1 cup Butter; NO Margarine
I;1 cup cream style cottage cheese small curd
D;This is my favorite way! They are delicious!!  I got it from
D;Take note of the temperature of the milk in the dumplings. They
D;A piadina is baked on a griddle, folded in half, and filled. In
I;8 croissants -- cubed (about 1 pound)
I;1 1/2 Cups Rice -- uncooked
D;Speedy Black Bean Soup
D;Shrimp cheese fondue makes an excellent cold appetizer. Pour warm
I;2 cups cooked salmon chunks or 2 cans (7-1/2 ounces each) salmon,
D;From "Appetizers" by the Editors of Sunset Books and Sunset Magazine (Lane
D;Refrigerate 30 minutes before serving.
I;1           teaspoon  five-spice powder
D;butter) Bake for about 1 hour at 150 C or 325 F or until skewer comes out
D;pan, mounding slightly. Sprinkle 1 cup of the blueberries over top.
D;for best flavor.
D;uncovered over medium-low heat for 1 1/2 hours more. Remove and discard the
I;1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
I;5 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme or 2 1/2 teaspoons dried
D;blender until smooth
D;Place the chicken in the oven and roast, basting with the citrus juice
I;2 stalks celery finely chopped
D;By Chef Gino
D;I server it with corn bread, of course:)
I;1/2 cup butter (do NOT use margarine - see Note below)
D;a boil, cover
D;Put in large bowl
I;1/2 c. catsup
I;1-1/4 cup granulated sugar
I;(it's best to use white meat)
I;White Pepper to taste
D;plentiful at our markets, why not use it?
D;bite-size strips and sprinkly with lemon pepper In skillet, heat
I;1 green pepper, seeded and chopped
D;mixture evenly in the cavity. Put the lemon and orange quarters inside
I;1/2 teaspoon vanilla
D;Source: Dairy Farmers of Canada.
I;Garnish Ingredients:
I;1/4 cup Crisco Butter Flavor Shortening or 1/4 Butter Flavor Crisco stick
D;diced tomatoes (fresh or canned)
D;on a cooling rack.
I;mushrooms may be included
I;salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
D;Lemon Pineapple Pie
D;Categories : Italian Main Course
I;1 (8 oz.) can tomato sauce
I;2      tablespoons   olive oil
D;had at JoJo, Jean-Georges Vongerichten's Manhattan bistro, other
I;4 1/2 cups (before sifting) CAKE flour
D;Refrigerate over night.
I;3 fluid ozs ounce warm water
I;1/2 gallon orange sherbert
I;1/2 c. shortening
I;1 t. chopped onion
D;From Quick Cooking November/December 2000
D;When the ice cream has frozen to the desired consistency, transfer to
I;2 medium acorn squash of about
I;1/2 head of lettuce
I;Tart Dough
I;2 tsp Sugar or to taste
I;1 tablespoon unsalted butter
I;2 pounds boneless beef chuck pot roast - cut into 1-inch pieces
I;1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves
I;2 cups tawny Port
D;vegetables are tender.
I;Chocolate curls
I;6 each pork loin chops 1 1/4 inch thick
I;1/2 c. crushed Blue Bell Potato Chips
D;shipped from our bakery in Italy to you; all natural, fresh, and baked
D;and simmer until mixed well. Use water and enough cornstarch to
D;mixture in a graham cracker crust and refrigerate. Enjoy!!
D;a 12-compartment muffin tin with vegetable oil cooking spray.
D;water in large saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce to medium
D;cake slightly before serving.
I;8 ounces large fresh or frozen peeled and deveined shrimp
I;salt and ground black pepper
I;1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, melted
I;6 large eggs, lightly beaten
D;be sure to bake without stirring.)
D;Active time: 45 min Start to finish: 2 3/4 hr
I;3 navel oranges
D;{http://www.hersheys.com/kisses/htm/recipe_3557_chocolate_chip_kiss_cookies.htm}
I;(about
D;3. Toss the turnips in a bowl with a generous splash of olive oil and salt
D;About ten minutes before serving, bring the chicken broth to a boil,
D;bowl. Toss it with the warm sauce. Serve on buns or bread.
I;14 cup warm water
I;1 cup granulated sugar
D;15-30 minutes (stirring occasionally) until mixture looks almost cooked.
I;Pinch of salt
D;-Bake until the filling is set at the edges and a knife inserted near the
D;Serves 7
I;half wine glass of white wine (I used Pinot Griggio)
D;(Cut the sheets to fit the pan.)
D;Whipped Cream filling
I;salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
I;1 teaspoon olive juice
I;1 medium cucumber, peeled and thinly sliced
D;sprouts and this
D;whole
D;From: <chef_rwmiller@sbcglobal.net>
I;Freshly-ground black pepper --to taste
D;Small mixing bowl
D;Chol. 123mg
I;1/2 cup mayonaise
I;2 cup Spinach leaves cut in pieces 
D;Barbecued Skittlet Burgers
I;Lemon or Lime wedges
D;Strain custard into large bowl; set over pot of ice and water. Cool 1
D;greased waffle baker. Close lid quickly; do not open during baking. Bake
D;Scrape the batter into the prepared 8-inch pan. Put the cheesecake in
I;5 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely
I;1/2 cup lime or lemon juice
D;1,187
D;tortillas and salsa on the side.
I;Chopped parsley or chopped fresh dill for garnish (optional)
D;the cornmeal batter thickens on standing, you may need to thin it with a
I;dash green food coloring (optional)
D;Cook just until the shrimp are firm and have turned pink, about 15 minutes.
D;and Italian bread
D;Brown this mixture in a heavy 4 qt kettle .
D;ready to serve. 
I;1/2  cup powdered sugar
D;2/3 cup sugar; gradually stir in one 5-ounce can (2/3 cup) evaporated milk.
D;Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 F. Line 2
D;Vegetable; 0 Fruit; 5 Fat.
I;2 tablespoons instant espresso powder or coffee powder
D;Freeze. Thaw slightly and spoon into glasses and pour 7-Up over
D;Baked Stuffed Heart
I;salt, to taste
D;apples, pineapple and peanuts, pour cooled dressing
I;Dill Seed
D;in chicken and pimientos; cook until hot. Serve over
D;pepper. Cook for 3 minutes or until peppers are tender. Beat eggs lightly
D;Stir in cream.
I;8 8 inch flour tortillas
I;10 carrots, sliced
I;turnips, carrots, spinach, celery, sweet potatoes -- in any
I;Emeril's Creole Seasoning (Essence):
D;heat of coals.
D;hours. To serve, ladle into bowls. Makes 10 main dish servings
D;occasionally.
D;kindness that has been shown me.
I;1/2 cup red pepper, choppedI;2 boxes (10 oz each) frozen broccoli florets, thawed
D;Cover chicken with water in a pot and cook until meat is done.
D;Stir in butter, then boiling water, then sugar and salt.
I;Shredded lettuce
I;2 cups shredded romaine lettuce
I;pinch of basil and oregano
D;around sides of cheesecake. Cool. Refrigerate cake overnight. (Can be
I;2 tsp chopped fresh basil
D;baking pan. Bake, covered, in a 350 oven for 35 to 45 minutes, or until
I;1/4 cup margarine - softened
I;1 cup hazelnuts, toasted (about 5 ounces)
I;Beef roast
I;2 Tbsp flour
D;minutes to heat, add the cheese and bake for 10 more minutes. Prep Time:
I;2 bay leaves
D;10 x 14 inches. Place on ungreased baking sheets.    Bake at 350 degrees F
D;Chef Zarela Martinez shares her tips:
D;in half. Rinse and drain them. Reserve the stems for another use. Drop
I;6 or 7 graham crackers, crushed into crumbs (3/4 cup)
D;little less than all of each and adding more to taste.
I;3                     eggs
I;1 tablespoon grated orange peel
D;omelet slightly with a spatula to let the uncooked portion flow
I;4 oz Spanish Mahón or Danish Fontina cheese, rind discarded and cheese
D;Repeat on the other side. Serves 4.
D;Garnish with a lemon or lime wedge, chunk of cheese and an olive.
I;rack of a broiler pan 4 to 6 inches from heat, turning over once, 6 to
D;NOTE: 1/4 cup shredded Cheddar Cheese may be used.
I;5 tablespoons sugar
D;(Pollo Arrosto All'Arancia, Limone, e Zenzero)
I;2 (8-oz.) cans Pillsbury Refrigerated Crescent Dinner Rolls
D;Shrimp And Chips
I;macaroni
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding02.html
I;1/2 cup each sliced red bell pepper   and sliced green bell pepper
I;1 pound ground beef
D;tablespoons lemon juice, 1 tablespoon grated lemon rind, 1 tablespoon
D;batches, turning occasionally, about 4 minutes per batch, adding more
I;1/4 teaspoon ground chile, plus a pinch for sprinkling on the eggs
I;cheese tortellini
I;1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
D;Spray vegetable cooking spray in skilled and heat over
D;dough
D;paper. Butter and flour sides of pan and parchment. Sift flour, baking
D;Categories: Bars Recipes
D;minutes until meatballs are no longer pink in center. Using a
I;Marinara Sauce:
I;~2  Tbsp fresh lemon juice or to taste
I;Parsley
I;10 hazelnuts
D;boil without stirring until caramel is deep amber color, occasionally
D;Bacon Potato Pie
D;juice. Cook in small pan over low heat. Stir and cook
I;parsley sprigs, for garnish
I;cinnamon to sprinkle
D;for 4-6 hours, stir in yolks last half hour
D;Heat oven to 450 F.
D;them for about 10 minutes, then toss them once (if tossed more frequently,
I;1/4 cup Romano cheese
I;3 tablespoons peeled and grated fresh ginger root
D;inserted in chicken with ease.
D;3-3/4- to 4-1/4-inch-wide straight-sided dish (such as a souffle dish) or
I;1/2 cup dry white wine or chicken broth
D;Protein 3 g
I;1/4 cup catsup
I;1 cup soy sauce
I;1 1/2 t Grated Lemon Rind
I;Cannoli
I;1/2 pound ground pork 
D;cooked potatoes.
I;1/4 cup tomato juice (50 mL)
D;French-vanilla chocolate for the frosting, but any fine-quality
I;3 large onions (about 9 to 11 ounces each), peeled and trimmed
D;Sprinkle with cilantro and serve
D;Assemble sandwiches:
D;longer, or until just set.
I;3 tablespoons butter (room temperature)
D;Meatballs: Denmark (Frikadeller)
I;3 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted
I;Scoop of ice
I;--combine all above and let rest 1/2 hour
I;1 teaspoon lemon juice or dry vermouth
I;*Take ice cream out 1/2 hour before starting
I;1/4 lb. mushrooms, sliced
D;the bird. Place the chicken on a rack in a roasting pan. Sprinkle it
D;and cook until tender, 5 to 8 minutes. Drain and set aside.
I;Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
I;1/4 t. ground nutmeg, plus more for garnishing
D;assembled the day before and then quickly baked before serving, for the
D;raspberry-cream cheese mixture.
D;Warm the oil in sauté pan (do not heat it to smoking) and quickly
I;24 oz. cream cheese, softened
I;vegetable cooking spray
D;This sumptuous cake combines the best of creamy cheesecake and moist
I;For the pasta dough:
D;9-inch cake. Cook until underside is golden, 4 to 5 minutes, rotating
I;vegetabes, drained
I;(flounder -- ocean perch
I;Orange sections for garnish
D;Malted Milk Ice Cream Cake With Blackberry Topping
D;Nutr. Assoc. : 3607 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
I;1 1/2 cups liquid from canned and dried mushrooms
I;Praline Topping:
D;Almost Grandmother's Challah
I;1/2 cup chopped onion
D;and food coloring. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring
I;1 can (16 ounces) fruit cocktail
D;lemon
D;the oven or on a burner.
D;Combine the ground meat, bread crumbs, egg, parsley, minced garlic and
D;Baked Version:
I;1 teaspoon nutmeg
D;so of cheesecake appears "set". Remove to cooling rack. Cool at room
D;The recipe is also delicious with fresh corn. The mixture can be prepared
D;375F. Cut the pastry into 3-inch circles on a well-floured surface. Place
D;35 calories per serving
D;medium heat beef is thoroughly cooked, stirring frequently.
D;dough by heaping tablespoonsfuls in greased pans, forming
D;Combine tomato juice, vodka, horseradish, lemon juice and Tabasco sauce in a
I;16 brine-cured black olives (such as Kalamata), pitted, coarsely
D;Your ob't sv'nt,
I;olive oil spray
D;noodles.
D;Allow
D;*Total fibre
D;Serves 12.
I;1/4 cup powdered sugar (optional)
D;medium bowl. Set aside.
I;Dash paprika
I;6 T. sugar
D;beating until thick. Chill until mixture can be spread.
D;Cajun Lentils
D;-Household Searchlight
I;2 cups Boiling water
I;blue cheese crumbles
D;mix, the chives and egg.
D;Per serving: 607 cal, 29 g pro, 65 g car, 5 g fiber, 25 g fat (9 g saturated
D;minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Remove pan sides. Cut enough off top
D;Crescent Bacon N Olive Cheesies
I;1 buffet can tomato sauce (sm.)
D;wooden spoon, stir soup while slowly pouring in beaten eggs. Remove
D;Remove beef mixture from skillet with slotted spoon; arrange on Boboli.
I;1 cup sesame seeds
D;cup milk with an electric mixer in another medium bowl. Whip it good 
D;white halves, to the bag. Close bag. Knead the bag until everything is well
I;1/4 cup Brewed Café Godiva Special Roast (room temperature)
D;C: 28%, calcium: 16%, iron: 32%
I;For espresso and chocolate icings
I;1 c Raw Broccoli Pieces
I;1 ounce semisweet chocolate, melted
I;1/2 cup shallots, peeled and finely chopped
I;2 oranges, peeled, sectioned, and orange flesh removed from skins
I;1/2 c. milk
I;Cooking oil, as needed
D;minutes. Remove the foil and bake another 5 to 8 minutes, or until the crust
I;sugar to taste
I;Black pearl ganache
D;boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover and simmer until figs soften,
I;Salt and ground black pepper to taste.
D;over batter. Process on/off 5 more times or just until
I;3 carrots (diced)
I;Salad:
I;12 lrg (abt 3 oz total) dried chiles guajillos stemmed, seeded, and deveined
I;3 bananas, sliced or mashed
D;Preheat the oven to 350 . Fit a parchment circle into the bottom of a
D;together; pinch ends together to seal. Repeat with remaining dough
I;lemon wedges, for garnish
D;grain. Remove any solid fat from sauce. Return sliced meat to pot.
I;1-1 1/2 lb loaf French bread, cubed or torn
D;Serving Size : 1 Preparation Time :0:00
I;Serves approx. 4
D;"Chicken breasts coated in an almond seasoned flour and sauteed, then
I;3 1/2 cup Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
I;2 tsp. grated lemon rind
D;Cook potatoes until soft but not mushy.
D;inserted in center comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
D;pecans, and vanilla at the end.
D;brown evenly in hot oil. Drain well, then add to soup. Skim grease
D;Serve over ice cream. Top with nuts and cherries if desired. Yield: 2 cups.
D;up with your masterfully 'que'd meat.
D;pale
I;Minced garlic, parsley, oregano, salt and pepper to taste
D;cooking.
I;Anicini
I;1 dozen chicken wings
D;Melt chocolate and shortening in the upper part of a double boiler.
I;pumpkin)
I;Brain Cookies:
D;about 30 minutes.)
I;2 cups of meat.
D;2. In a large mixing bowl, mix mayonnaise, lemon juice, sugar
D;bread crumbs, eggs, basil, oregano, onions, parsley and garlic.
D;prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap cake in plastic and chill.)
D;well combined.
I;Whole cloves (optional)
D;"Dashi is a basic stock used in Japanese cooking which is made by boiling
D;additions of dry ingredients and two of sour cream. Spread in prepared
D;the cake from the springform pan.  Use a spatula to spread the icing 
D;frosting, whisking until smooth.
I;2/3 cup Evaporated Milk
D;simple coffee cakes that were quick, had enough chocolate to qualify as
D;popular
D;Special equipment: a 10-inch bundt pan (3 1/4 inches deep; 3-qt
I;1 Egg 
D;from heat and cool.
D;sugar, and corn syrup to a boil over moderately low heat, whisking
D;and cook, stirring, 30 seconds.
I;Pancakes
I;Garnish
I;1 1/2 cups (about 6 ounces) pepper jack cheese, shredded
D;side but cooking times can vary greatly depending on thickness of chops and
D;tender and all the water
I;5 cups dry French or white bread with crusts, cubed
D;Sweet & Sour Cabbage Soup
I;2 pounds meaty veal neck bones
I;toasted baguette slices
D;mixture stand, stirring occasionally, until chocolate is melted and
I;vanilla, almond or lemon essence
D;7-by-11-inch baking dish and top with apple slices. In a small bowl,
I;14-oz can diced tomatoes & green chilies - not drained
I;1 clove garlic, minced 
I;4 cups honey
I;ounces)
D;thickened. Cook 2 additional minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from
I;1/2 c. grated Parmesan cheese
I;1 c. M & M's
D;water and cook until they float to the top. Drain and set aside.
I;1 pkg. linguine (16 oz)
I;1 1/3 cups cider vinegar
I;1 Tbsp. Oil
I;cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices
D;center of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and
I;1/2 head of cabbage
I;2tbsp creamed horseradish
I;3 cups finely ground chocolate graham
D;the spinach, pasta, carrot and meatballs. Return to boil; reduce heat
I;1 16-ounce can whole tomatoes, drained and chopped
I;1 cup sugar
D;salted water to which you have added 1 teaspoon olive oil. Pour gently in to
D;3 tablespoons olive oil. Rub the outside of the chicken all over with
I;juice of 1 ripe blood orange
I;1  egg
I;You Will Need
D;soup plates.
D;North Carolina Style Pulled Pork Barbecue
I;or
D;no more liquid come out of the cheese. Transfer the cheese to the
D;making topping.
D;Add 1 cup ground almonds to dough. Form into 1-inch
I;or Swiss)
I;1/2 pound fresh squid, cleaned and cut into 1/4-inch pieces Spanish brandy
I;4 slices cooked smoked bacon, cut into 3-inch pieces, optional
I;1 cup icing sugar
D;10 to 13 minutes or until light brown.
I;1/2 lb picholine or lucques olives, pitted and sliced or coarsely chopped
D;around gives it the look of the real thing. And looks, as you all
I;1/2 cup plus 2/3 cup warm water (105 F. to 115 F.)
D;Benihana restaurant located in the Hilton hotel and casino in Las
D;cubes to taste. Simmer 30 - 45 min. Add the mushroom soup, stir
D;best for producing right crust color & texture)
I;Shrimp:
I;Carrot and celery sticks
D;beat until frosting is smooth. Mix in Grand Marnier.
D;gently but do not overmix.
D;Serves/Makes:6
D;scraping down the bowl a few times. Add the cream cheese to the
D;zest to a traditional favorite.
I;1 cup crushed egg noodles or pastene
I;Powdered sugar glaze; or...
I;1/4 cup sliced green onion
I;1 T Cold water
D;large tube pan.
I;5 large eggs
D;linguine. These are the best sesame noodles I've ever had!
I;Lemon juice, optional
D;pepper, and sugar. Cover, reduce heat and simmer 10 minutes. Stir in beans;
D;15 seconds until a ball is formed.
D;parsley. Meatballs are easy to make, but the meat must be freshly ground by
I;2/3 gallon cider, which has been boiled down from 2 gallons fresh cider
D;sauce, salt, and pepper.
I;1/4 t. garlic salt
D;In a blender, grind the tomatoes, with the oregano and salt to
D;Chocolate Pecan Frosting over hot cake.
D;There is no one way to make braciola. You can add spinach and any other
I;1/4 teaspoons lemon pepper
D;Stir in softened gelatin, orange zest, and vanilla, mixing until
I;20 apples
I;12 oz. raw carrots, (8-9)
I;1 tablespoon grated Parmesan Cheese
I;White pepper and salt to taste
D;This is the best cabbage salad ever. If you take it to pot lucks and
D;a lightly floured rolling pin roll out dough into an 8-inch round.
D;Linda in Tennessee
I;1 cup sour cream
D;because the pieces are larger or maybe
D;Add green onion and potato peels.
D;minutes. Return the lamb to the pan and stir the pieces around briefly to
D;Strawberries
I;Grated Parmesan cheese (optional)
D;Cheesecake
D;25 minutes or until golden brown.
D;heat immediately. Serves 2.
I;2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
I;8 ounces shredded Monterey
D;bake 12 minutes.
I;Vegetable cooking spray
D;Gently loosen cheesecake from pan sides. Carefully release sides of
I;a mild Mexican cheese or jack -- shredded
D;glass baking dish with nonstick cooking spray. In large
I;4 tablespoons Dry sherry
I;1/2 to 3/4 tsp crushed red pepper
I;8 chicken breasts (boneless and skinless)
I;2                     garlic cloves crushed
I;Shaved, unsweetened chocolate
I;1/2 cup Sour cream
I;Beat: Fold into Base
I;1 medium onion, chopped (1/2 cup)
I;1 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley
I;2 15 ounce cans black beans
I;1/4 freshly ground black pepper
D;tablespoon oil in a 10-inch heavy skillet (preferably cast-iron) over
D;Ginger arrived in Italy with Arabic traders or North African Jewish
D;become stale more quickly.
D;Gradually whisk in remaining 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar. Add
I;kernels from 2 fresh ears of corn on the cob or 1-1/2 cups frozen corn
D;cover with 2 1/2 cups of the barbecue sauce. Bake covered, basting until the
D;tough stem ends. Discard core. Pat leaves dry with paper towels.
D;Presentation:
I;1 cup coconut
D;Remove from the heat; stir in cinnamon oil (keep face away from mixture
I;Filling of your choice
D;One Serving = Calories: 305 Carbohydrates: 33 Protein: 18 Fat: 12
D;Cut into squares.
I;(3 medium), peeled, cored, and coarsely chopped
I;75 g sugar
I;Whipped Cream
D;layer.
I;Louisiana hot sauce or ground cayenne pepper to  taste
D;Make frosting:
D;Dill spring
I;1 teaspoon allspice
I;1 to 3 tablespoons olive oil
D;Sift baking powder and flour together. Gently mix
D;Let rise in a warm place for 15 minutes. Add the salt, oil, Cheddar cheese, 
I;into bite-size pieces
D;egg mixture. Repeat 2 more times (do not overmix or batter may
D;pieces, forming 2 braids. Place each braid on baking sheet. Cover with
D;forming.
D;rectangle length-wise into 3 strips; then cut crosswise into 5 strips
D;all
I;Nonstick vegetable oil spray
I;2 pounds Granny Smith apples, cored and cut into 1/2-inch thick slices
D;lemon. Combine lemon zest
I;1 each sweet red, yellow and green pepper, cut in
D;find the sweetness of memmi to your liking.)
D;Makes 4  servings.
D;Let cool completely on wire rack.
D;substitute with a good Italian Bread from your local market.
D;1 Tbsp nutmeg  Add 1 Tbsp white pepper  Add 1 Tbsp garlic powder  Add
D;*** My notes: I think the recipes in this cookbook all assume using a
D;adjusting the seasoning to taste.
D;Grill to preheat.
D;Note: This cake freezes well and may be made up to two days in advance.
I;Lettuce
I;1/4  teaspoon baking powder
D;35-40 minutes. Serve immediately. Serves 2
D;chocolate. Whisk until smooth.
I;raspberries with lots of sugar in them
I;grated zest and juice 2 large, juicy lemons
I;juice of 1 lime
D;From Ann In Fla
I;red beans drained
I;Tabasco to taste
I;1 pint fresh strawberries, rinsed, dried, and hulled
D;In a saucepan cook beans with water for 2 hours. In a saute pan,
I;Yield: 10-12 servings
I;1/2 large Yellow Bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped
D;Italian Wedding Soup 
D;In small saucepan, heat cottage cheese until very warm,
I;Parmesan cheese shavings
I;Here's an easy Asian BBQ sauce that can be mixed up quicker than you can say
D;Pie pan
I;cups chopped cabbage
D;immediately.
I;1 carton (8oz) coolwhip
D;350 degree oven. Cool in the pan for 5 min. after removing the pan from
D;mixing bowl, stir together green onion, chili peppers, oil, cilantro or
I;Lightly sweetened whipped cream
I;1/2 cup vegetable oil plus 2 tablespoon vegetable oil
I;1/2 cup well-chilled heavy cream
I;For cake layers
D;in hot oil over medium heat about 5 minutes or until crisp-tender,
D;additional 2 minutes. Serve with Spanish Sauce.
I;1 clove garlic, minced
D;simmer. Top each chop with cheese. Cover and cook 1
I;Few strands saffron or 1/4 tsp turmeric
I;1/4 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
I;1 onion, chopped or 1 bunch green onions, chopped or both
I;1/2 pound angel hair, cooked just shy of al dente, about 4 or 5 minutes
D;Jenn B aka Mom2Sam and Tiny
I;1/3     cup     butter -- melted
D;cook until it wilts (this removes the bitter taste from the greens).
D;Heat oven to 350F. Grease baking sheets. Combine first 5 ingredients,
I;3 shiitake mushrooms
D;Serve immediately
I;for serving
D;match. Shake the pan back and forth until the flame dies, basting the
I;Chili Mayonnaise (below)
I;spices to season fish/chicken
D;I've tried this cooked on the grill, and it's okay ... but it tastes
D;bake for 30 to 40 minutes, or until they are lightly browned. Allow to
I;Bacon, 4-6 slices
D;with chocolate and put, chocolate sides up, on rack. Chill cookies in 1
I;8 Tbsps brown sugar or Splenda Brown Sugar substitute
D;at room temperature until foamy, about 10 minutes.
I;1/2  cup chopped hazelnuts (2.25 oz bag)
D;cake in pan. Cover and freeze until firm, at least 4 hours and up to 2
D;Total Fat 7 g
D;Mincemeat
I;Pour Sauce Over; Bake:
I;2 cups wine
I;Essential American-Style Biscotti
I;1/8 tsp. pepper
I;1/2 cup honey mustard
D;Garnish with sour cream and parsley or cilantro sprigs.
D;once!!
I;2  tablespoons warm water (105 degree F to 115 degree F)
D;sieve.
I;1 T Honey
D;Percent Calories from Carbohydrate 54%
D;Divide dough into 6 parts; shape each into a rope
D;Divide mixture into well greased baking pans. (12x20x2)
D;half an hour).
D;dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and boil until mixture is
I;1 1/2 cups green bell pepper strips (from 1 large pepper)
I;Freshly ground black pepper (he used Tellicherry) to taste
I;Rind from one lemon, or 1/2 teaspoon almond extract
I;2 1/2 cup mixed dry fruit--currants, dates & raisins
I;1 Tbsp seasoning salt or Italian spices
D;A subtle hint of lavender accents this lovely dessert. It can also be
I;1/2 cup English-style bitter orange marmalade
D;Cholesterol; 265mg Sodium. Exchanges: 1/2 Grain(Starch); 3 1/2 Lean Meat; 0
I;1 1/2
I;Banana Poi
D;about 20 minutes. Uncover and simmer gently until liquid evaporates,
D;cream balls, melted chocolate, and almonds; place in freezer. Repeat
D;Italian Meatballs
D;sharp knife on rib side parallel to the surface of the chop. Be careful
D;Serving Size : 2 Preparation Time :0:00
I;Salt and ground black pepper to taste
D;450 .  (about 10-12 minutes.)
I;6 Cups water
D;water. Stir in blueberries. Heat to boiling, stirring frequently until
I;3/4 teaspoon baking powder
I;1/2 cup Pared carrots -- chopped
D;center of the oven.
I;cilantro if desired
I;1/3 cup of your favorite sweet wine or vermouth
I;1/2 cup coarsely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
I;1 dash Worcestershire sauce
D;crumbly, it's ready.
D;ingredients. Remove crescents from can in rolled sections.
D;over low temperature about 1 hour or until fork can be
D;Pour custard through a fine-mesh sieve into a (clean) metal bowl and
D;same procedure, dropping coffee ice cream balls into melted chocolate,
D;crackers or french bread.
D;a time, place bottom of each custard cup in 1 inch of hot water 30 to
D;Serve steamed broccoli on the side.
D;lightly floured board. Roll in oblong sheet 1/4 inch thick. Brush with
I;cilantro to garnish (optional)
D;the dough.
D;Pre heat oven to 350°. In a medium bowl combine
D;wire rack.
I;1 cup sliced almonds, lightly toasted
D;On the top side of the bread, put a generous amount of Jay's Muffuletta
D;24 (4 oz.) servings of gator tail.
I;2 t. salt
D;tomato
D;in pan. Remove from pan and cool on wire rack. Makes 1
D;Wash chicken parts and cover with water; bring to boil. Add half
I;1/2 tsp salt
D;with mustard.
D;Fluffy Onion rolls
I;1/4 cup salsa
I;Fresh dill chopped
D;edges. Cool one
D;on thermometer (do not let boil). Immediately remove from heat and pour
I;pieces (tikkas)
D;is dissolved. Cover and let stand 5 min. Strain. Divide evenly into
D;(If I recall correctly, that was a bit too much time at least once and/or
D;vanilla extract. Stir vigorously for 1 minute or until
I;1/4 cup olive oil
I;Juice of 1 lime
D;File
I;1 dash Tabasco sauce
I;1 cup miniature marshmallows
I;Shortcakes:
D;Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish. In a large bowl, mix together brown sugar
D;until golden, about 3 minutes. Add garlic, cumin, and coriander and
I;large zip-top bag
D;65 to 70 minutes.
D;Add the rest of the ingredients in the following order. (Note: its ok
I;mixed with
D;Add to creamed mixture alternately with milk.
I;Dumplings:
I;Lemon wedges -- to garnish
I;1/4  cup all-purpose flour
D;muffing cups or 13 x 9 inch pan. Stir down dough. Drop
D;Recipe By :© Cole Publishing
I;(Meatballs in an Almond Sauce)
I;5 large egg yolks
D;before carving.
D;Source: Brooke Dojny's Dishing up Maine (Storey Publishing, 2006, $19.95)
I;2 tablespoons butter melted
D;powdered sugar to decorate.
D;not boil.
I;6 T. safflower oil
I;several onions
D;heat. Boil, stirring constantly, for 8 to 10 minutes. Remove
D;Garnish with fresh lemon slices."
D;about 5 minutes.
D;For topping:
D;Pour juice from can of tomatoes into stew, then coarsely chop tomatoes
I;For Chocolate curls:
D;and nutmeg. Divide butter mixture among sweet potatoes.
D;Hillbilly Corn Bread
I;1/4 c. chopped green pepper
D;salad on both sides of the bread (this is considered the Mayonnaise).
D;nuts. Bake in 2 loaf pans or coffee cans in a 350F degree oven for 1 hour 10
D;Cover pot and
I;bouquet garni (parsley stalks, thyme, bay leaf and celery bound with
D;TAGLIOLINI
I;1/2 Lb. Lean baked ham
I;Whipped light cream (optional)
I;1 (8 oz.) pkg. macaroni
D;party dessert; it must be made in advance, and will keep well for a few
D;large nonstick skillet. Add eggs and scramble until cooked. Remove from
D;2-quart casserole. Add broth and wine. Bake 2 hours at 300 degrees F. Add
D;steaming. Add the cooked potatoes and corn. Cook for 45-55
I;1 whole star anise or 1/2 teaspoon star anise pieces
D;Pour ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Enjoy!
D;Sauté onion and next 5 ingredients in hot oil in a large skillet over
D;Place pork loin chops in deep dish. Sprinkle on both sides with salt and
I;1 tablespoon grated onion
I;227 1/2 g Chick peas (dried) or 1/2 Garlic clove 400 g Chick peas (canned)
D;Add 2 beaten eggs to mixture of flour and 1/2 t. salt; mix gently and gradually
D;juice.
D;We are experiencing problems with the mailing list.  We are working to
I;Lentil Layer:
I;1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
D;beef. Cover
D;Helen's Spiced Beets
D;Beat butter and sugar. Beat in egg. Mix in flour and baking powder
D;as an appetizer.
D;warm frost top.
I;pinch red pepper flakes
D;Meat; 0 Fat.
I;1 package active dry yeast
D;each section into eight slices. Place on ungreased cookie
D;Ground Beef Pork & Ham
D;Apple and Celery Salad with Peanuts
I;2 tablespoons canola oil
I;2 sprigs curry leaves (use the leaves only, not the stems)
I;This Italian-inspired main dish can be made ahead and refrigerated until
D;Salsa and sour cream
D;Caramelized Turnips from Foodfit.com
D;fresh
D;Combine dates, boiling water and baking soda in a bowl. Let stand 1/2 hour.
I;2 teaspoons dried lavender blossoms,* finely ground in spice mill
D;Garlic Lentils
I;4.5kg/10lb oven ready turkey crown, thoroughly thawed if frozen
D;a Tblspn full at  a time to make it stiff if needed) leave about 2"
D;cooking).
D;Bloody Mary Jolly Style St. Pete Times
D;days getting it just right. When she is satisfied, she moves on to the
D;and puree.
I;Salmon:
I;1 carrot, grated
D;sheet of wax paper off of the dough
I;6 stalks scallions
I;pepper, to taste
I;1/3 cup milk
I;Mix
I;1/3 cup honey
D;well. Cover, let rise in warm place until light and doubled
D;cook on low heat setting for 8-10 hours, or cook on high heat setting for 4-5
D;Cream of Chanterelle Mushroom Soup
D;onion powder in a frying pan on medium heat until cooked, then pour
I;3/4 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice
I;drained
D;Baked French Toast (Old Stonehouse B&B, Hardy, AR)
I;1/2 cup finely chopped green
I;1 1/2 cups (about 12 large) egg whites
D;Julia Child's Stuffed Pumpkin
D;pasta.
D;in heavy large skillet over high heat. Season chicken with salt and
I;12 slices firm bread; your choice plain white, wheat French, sourdough,
D;medium high heat; reduce heat to medium. Cook about 5
D;Source: http://www.recipebookonline.com/asp/viewrecipe.asp?ID=1329
I;Brownie Bottom:
I;4 tbls. mayonnaise
D;sugars 4 g; protein 10 g.
D;Cantucci
I;1 c Warm Water (110 to 115 -degrees)
D;between the slices. Cover  with foil and refrigerate overnight.  The next
D;blended.
I;(suggestions: zucchini, cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, kohlrabi,
D;THREE-CHEESE CHICKEN BREASTS IN TOMATO SAUCE
D;Recipe from Healthy Crockery Cookery by Mable Hoffman
D;Melt butter in sauce pan and add onion and celery.
D;Missouri. Do you think the pastry chef would share the recipe?"
D;For Fudge:
D;approximately 2/3rds full. Bake for 12 minutes until golden brown.
D;cornmeal. Whisking constantly, slowly add the mixture to the boiling milk.
D;When mandarin orange gelatin has firmed up on top of the cake, remove 
D;bratwurst and onions together until crispy brown. To serve sprinkle toast
D;dish from roasting pan.
I;2 Italian sausage links, casings removed, finely chopped
I;12               oz.  dried black beans
I;2 cans 32 ounces each Italian plum tomatoes chopped with there juices
D;corner all the way around. Then make a bottom crust, and finally press
I;1 1/2 cups low fat low dosium
I;1/2 lb sharp provolone cut into pieces or crumbled into large pieces
I;bratwurst sliced
D;bottom of 9-inch round cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment
D;mayonnaise. Add flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with water,
D;Someone was asking about black treacle recently and I mentioned that I
I;4 teaspoons ground cumin
I;1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
D;Easy Baked Carnitas
I;1 cup fresh raspberries
I;Buttercream frosting
I;1  teaspoon vanilla extract
D;mushrooms, set aside. (I prefer to use dried shiitake, which must be
I;About 2 cups hot cooked rice
D;minute or until cheese is melted and bubbly, but not browned. (and egg is
D;3 pie dishes or plates with waxed paper. Working with 1 vanilla ice
D;Beat egg whites and cream of tartar until stiff but
I;8 T. Roquefort cheese
I;Baked Ziti
I;1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds, crushed (2 mL)
I;20 fluid ounce (600 ml) milk
D;some specialty foods stores and farmers' markets.
I;Salad oil
I;1/2 tsp. leaf oregano
D;ENJOY
D;HEALTHIER HALLOWEEN TREAT ALTERNATIVES
I;Molasses
D;medium-high heat until onion is tender. Add tomatoes, reserved liquid, salt,
D;the vanilla bean and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium, remove
D;on top of the stove in 20 minutes.
D;Just before serving, add seltzer and unmolded ice ring.
I;8ouncesyellow wax beans -- trimmed
D;Make a pocket in each chop by cutting into the chop with a small
I;2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
I;For the roasted shallot vinaigrette:
D;Meat;
D;metal bowl. Add boiling-hot cream mixture in a slow stream, whisking
D;Serve in small soup bowls (like French onion soup) and put PLENTY
D;Total Carbohydrate 23 g
D;Special equipment: an instant-read thermometer; an ice cream maker;
I;1 (5 1/2-pound) fore-rib, wing-rib or sirloin of beef, French trimmed
D;Preheat oven to 350. Coat a 9 ax 13" baking dish with cooking spray. Sprinkle 1
D;wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool in pans 10 minutes; 
D;cream mixture in a slow stream, whisking. Stir custard into cream
D;Add
D;with candied sugar.  Pour the nuts onto a plate and let them cool 
D;taste.
I;pinch of salt
I;1 c. sour cream (opt.)
D;soaked in warm water for 30 min. prior to use. Discard stems of shiitake,
I;1/2 lb Pork stew meat, cut into 1-inch cubes
I;and return the shredded
D;This was the first from-scratch cake she taught me. It's good, easy,
D;Toss well and serve immediately.
I;1/2 cup red wine vinegar
I;1/4 teaspoon paprika
D;electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in bowl to blend. Beat in
I;sauce
I;1 large egg
I;10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
D;350 , rack in the middle  position.   Roll walnut-sized dough balls with
D;Chocolate curls:
I;1 (14 oz) can low sodium beef broth
I;1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh parsley leaves
I;1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
D;In medium bowl, beat egg with milk, flour, sugar, baking soda, baking
D;Ice cookies:
D;flexible recipe.
I;1 cup grated Swiss cheese
I;1 head of cabbage (cut into small wedges)
D;Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting over top of
I;1 10 1/2 ounce can condensed
D;Sauce:
I;chopped parsley and chives to taste
I;3/4 pound fish fillets (cod, striped bass, snapper) cut in bite-size
D;a lightly greased 2-quart ovenproof casserole. Sprinkle paprika on top for
D;flour and sugar. Add vinegar and reserved pineapple
I;3 14.5 oz cans fat-free chicken broth
D;be left unpeeled.
D;Bake at 350 F for 20 minutes.
D;Transfer chilies to blender.
I;1/2 gallon lime sherbert
D;This one was my mom's--and in spite of what you always heard, her
D;ginger and rum into ice cream. Transfer to airtight container. Freeze
D;Sausage Cabbage Soup
D;Title: Phony Whipped Cream
D;Sweet-And-Sour Stuffed Mustard Cabbage
I;1/2 cup (1 Stick) margarine or butter, melted
I;cornstarch to thicken
D;over the cheesecake top. Drain the oranges and pat them dry with paper
I;1 1/2 cups Green Giant Select Frozen
D;1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar in heavy large saucepan over medium heat
D;up sides to make a deeper trench. Bake 20 minutes;
D;& Perrins (Worcestershire sauce)
I;1 pt Kahlua
D;ice cream mixture until firm, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead.
I;1 large turnip, peeled and quartered
I;12 Habanero chiles, stems removed, chopped
I;For the turkey
D;sides and process a few more seconds.
D;other vegetables. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
I;1/2 pound beef chuck, freshly ground or whole
D;211mg Sodium.  Exchanges: 1Grain(Starch); 0 Lean Meat; 1 1/2 Fruit; 3 Fat; 1 1/2
D;whisking until chocolate is melted. Cut butter into pieces and add to
I;instant bouillon
I;8 bite-sized pieces of mozzarella, plain or marinated, drained then halved
I;4" long
D;Easy Mint Brownies
D;Serve this hearty chowder on a chilly fall evening.
I;1 cup heavy cream
D;To make cake layer, combine flour, baking powder and salt in a small 
I;1/3 cup butter or margarine -- cold
D;Continue to cook until mixture is slightly thickened. 4 servings (about 2
D;Apples, peeled and cored.
I;1 Ck Yeast
D;heat; fold in tomato.
D;Put the water and the chicken in a large pot and bring the water to
D;milk to a boil. In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining milk and the
I;1 1/2 teaspoons salt
D;springform pan. Chill cheesecake at least overnight before serving;
D;Bake 10 to 12 minutes until golden brown. Serve immediately
I;2 teaspoons grated ginger
I;1/4 cup finely chopped honey
I;Tomato-Black Bean Barley Soup
I;1-12 oz. can frozen lemonade
I;1  teaspoon unflavored gelatin
D;hearty soup that my family loves.
I;Truffle oil
D;the mussels!
D;Recipe By : HomeCooking Magazine, September 2000, Page 59
I;paprika and chopped fresh parsley
D;a wire rack.
I;For Mousse:
D;melted. Drain shrimp and dice or not, depending on size. Add shrimp
I;1 piece lemon peel -- 3 inches
D;before cutting in to squares and serving.
D;boiling, stirring and scraping up any brown bits, 1 minute, then pour
D;3 tablespoons liquid. Combine reserved beet liquid, jelly, vinegar, salt,
I;2 tablespoons sesame seed
I;1 tablespoons plus 3/4 cup sugar
I;1/2 box Corn Pops (optional - tends to be sweet)
D;until cabbage is done.
D;Embarrassing admission no. 2: In testing recipes for this article, I made
D;Sandy U.
I;Cajun spices (blackened or cajun king herbed spice excellent) to taste
D;13-inch pan. Spoon the cheesecake batter over the brownie batter,
I;Cookie Base:
D;Reqeust  From: "Just Me" <chimpface74@yahoo.com>
D;Mix in cashews
D;1/4-inch thick.
D;refrigerated until ready to serve. This cake can be made 2 days in
D;over pink batter.
D;Scrub squash. Cut in half lengthwise; remove seeds and
D;Here's yet another one that I make.. :)
D;When food editor Shelley Wiseman remarked on the basil ice cream she
D;and bake 15-20 minutes until golden brown. Immediately
D;until fluffy. Add 2/3 cup sugar; beat until well blended. Beat in egg
D;Use as a topping for icecream, a dip for fruits, potato chips, or whatever.
D;Prepare Flaky Pastry:
D;Make sauce:
I;Reserved marinade
D;Ham and Cheese Strata
I;2 eggs
D;remaining 3 eggs with the remaining 1 cup of cheese. Pour this
D;just until moist. Spoon batter into each of 12 muffin cups coated with
D;2 servings.
I;Paprika to sprinkle on top
I;1/4 cup peeled and finely julienned fresh ginger (2 inches long)
I;3 egg whites
D;apart. Stir chopped semisweet chocolate and vegetable shortening in
D;Chicken with Garlic, Basil and Parsley
D;bottom and sides of a 13- by 9-inch baking pan, then line bottom
I;about 2 Tablespoons heavy cream
I;pieces before frying)
D;Ignite with match.
D;mixture is smooth.
D;Scoop the seeds out of each half with a spoon
I;1 1/2 c Sugar
D;minutes over medium-high heat or until tender-crisp and
D;Transfer to bowl.
D;Serve warm with dollop of sweetened whipped cream.
D;refrigerator.
D;3 tablespoons water in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat stirring
I;Vegetable oil as needed for deep frying
D;into a chilled cocktail glass. An old great standard.
D;a bowl. For marinade, stir together lime or lemon juice and water. Pour
D;coriander seeds during Passover; if you do not because you are from an
I;Juice of 2 lemons
D;Combine the garlic, rosemary, black pepper, and sea salt and mix with
D;Preheat oven to 325 F. Heat oil in heavy large pot or Dutch oven over
I;2 large onions, thinly sliced and separated in rings
D;pepper in a bowl. Mix well and form into tiny meat balls 3.)
I;1 t. Worcestershire sauce
I;normal milk, but of course that gives a different taste)
I;The following is a recipe I got from my grandmother and I found it easy
D;mixture over lamb in pot.
D;of the oven. Boil water in a teakettle, reduce the heat, and keep warm.
I;6-8 lb. Stew meat, or cubed steak ,cut in bit sized pieces
D;slightly browned.
D;This is very good done with poblanos if New Mexico Long Greens are
I;2 - 3 Tbsp fresh coriander (cilantro), coarsely chopped
I;1 cup water
I;3/4 cup chopped walnuts, divided
D;Filling: Fold in 1 cup heavy cream, beaten until stiff. Pistachio Filling:
D;Garnish with dill pickles.
D;together evenly.
I;Memphis Rub ( makes 1/2 cup )
D;into bread cube mixture until all cubes are moistened. Stir in 2
D;The
D;2. Line tortillas with shredded lettuce. Top with egg mixture, cheese, bacon
D;1/2 of the noodles over filling, then spread cheese
I;A pinch of sweet basil
D;yogurt to blend in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar,
I;2 cloves garlic crushed
I;1  cup hot potato water** or 1 cup water, plus 1 tablespoon instant potato
I;1/4 cup diced onions
D;For streusel:
I;1 1/2 cups cherry tomatoes -- halved
D;Make florentines while ice cream hardens:
I;Dressing
D;Measure flours, sugar, wheat germ, baking powder, cinnamon
I;Vegetable oil for frying
D;moderate heat, stirring, until butter is melted.
D;apples, walnuts, and raisins. Spoon batter into prepared pan; spread
I;1/2 cup bread crumbs
D;Prepare Dream Whip by whipping together 1 envelope of Dream Whip and 1/2 
I;1 teaspoons Dried rosemary
D;cheese melts.
I;3 tbsp Butter
I;8 ounces Process Cheddar cheese -- shredded
D;Will feed two people generously. Enjoy!
I;1 tablespoon vanilla extract
I;Arance e Limoni
D;I love Burmese food, and am looking forward to all the other recipes to be
D;uncovered, then chilled, covered. Reheat before serving.
D;slicing meat. To serve, remove meat from pot and slice thinly across
D;Beer Biscuits
I;4 Tbsp Milk
D;Bring 1 cup water to simmer in small saucepan; stir in 1 tablespoon
I;I have no idea who Belle was, but her recipe has been a family favorite
D;order given. Put 1/2 of this mixture into 9"x13" pan and pat down. Mix
I;1 1/2 pounds beets, peeled and cut into strips 1/8 inch wide by 2
D;alternately with date mixture. Fold in nuts.
D;beating at low speed of electric mixer, beginning and ending with flour 
I;Ground white pepper
I;1-1/4 cup heavy cream
D;over flour mixture. Bake 30 minutes or until carrots are tender. 6
D;In a 12-inch skillet over medium-low heat, cook bacon until browned.
D;soon as the water boils. Throw out the water, put in new water, add the
I;Saute in
I;Milk chocolate candy kisses with almonds -- OR
I;Marjoram
D;the sugar begins to caramelize and turn light brown. Be careful not to 
D;to 10 minutes before serving.
D;syrup.
D;oil,
I;cottage cheese
I;2-1/2 to 3 pounds boneless beef brisket
I;1 med. Onion (diced)
I;4 cup unsalted chicken broth [CC has a recipe, but you can also buy it]
I;meat back to the stew and reheat slightly before finishing the dish with
D;on all sides, about 5 minutes. Add reserved 1 tablespoon garlic mixture
I;half a habanero chili, seeded and finely chopped
I;About 6 ounces precooked fish cake (available in Korean or Japanese
D;Bake in 350 F oven for 15 minutes. Remove foil and spoon reserved
I;3/4 cup fresh chopped dill, if using dried, start with 3 tsp.
D;spinach. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat. Meanwhile, in
D;Applesauce Cake
D;minutes or until vegetables are crisp tender, stirring
I;1/2 c Tomato Sauce -or- Pizza -Sauce
D;Make cake layers:
I;1/2 cup white wine
D;PRALINE TOPPING: While butter-cream is cooking,
D;MACARONI AND CHEESE PUFF
D;* Red or green peppers.
D;turnip, kohlrabi, 4 of the carrots, the parsley, 4 tablespoons of the
D;Discard brine solution and rinse turkey well, inside and outside.
D;slices.
D;This comes from Sunset Magazine, August, 1995, and it's absolutely
D;contest
D;mixture in a stream, beating until combined well. Pour mixture into
D;Poached Salmon
I;orange slices or wedges (optional) fresh mint sprig (optional)
D;until mixture boils and thickens, stirring frequently. If
D;matzah balls. The zucchini is my, not MGM's addition.
D;Cook stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in
D;just barely browned on top.
D;A regular eggplant parmesan recipe can be modified to baked this way:
D;Source The American Country Inn And Bed Breakfast Cookbook
I;1/2 pound ground pork
D;Yield: about 10 cups of mix
I;1 T. dried parsley
I;2 Candy Bars (Your Choice) -- broken into pieces
I;2 T. chili powder
D;Nutr. Assoc. : 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
I;Celery sticks for garnish
D;minced garlic
I;3 T Sugar = artifical sweetener
D;almonds.
I;2-3/4 apples\cooked, cored and sliced
D;Per Serving (excluding unknown items): 7469 Calories; 563g Fat (66.8% calories
D;in size, 45-60 minutes. Generously grease, not oil, 16
I;1 cup real mayonnaise (not imitation or substitute)
I;3 cups shredded cabbage
I;1 cup chopped nuts
I;7 1/2 cups (about) all-purpose flour
I;1 12-ounce can corned beef,
I;2 pounds chicken parts 
D;Put 2 cans of the chicken broth into a large soup pot. Cut the
I;6 each eggs
D;cheddar cheese, if desired. Makes 4 (8-inch) waffles (8 servings).
I;3 large eggs
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon oil****
I;campanelle)
D;Buffalo Chicken Wings
D;Roasted Duck with Cherries
D;Cut the top 1/2-inch off the head of garlic. Put the garlic in an
D;half, shape into 2 loaves and place in greased loaf pans. Cover with a cloth
D;heated through and cheese is melted.
D;Mix hamburger with salt, pepper and onion; brown. Add tomato soup mixed with
D;Heat butter, saute onions until soft and golden. Add beef, stir, then
D;covered and chilled, 3 days. Bring cake to room temperature before
D;Chop the peppers onions garlic and tomatoes. Lightly fry the peppers onion and
D;to a covered plate.
D;Bake at 450 degrees for 14 minutes.
I;6 cups low-salt V8 Juice
D;Pastry Cream: In a medium bowl whisk together first amount of milk, egg
I;diced
I;2 cups 1/2-inch cubes peeled assorted tropical fruits (such as mango,
D;tomato sauce, stewed tomatoes with their juices, wine and bay leaves and
I;3 tablespoons reduced fat mayonnaise
D;a wooden spoon, until mixture coats back of spoon and registers 175 F
D;table.
D;for consumption
D;Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350F. Combine vanilla
I;1 cup chopped celery
I;1 tablespoon butter
D;Preheat oven to 425. Sauté the onion sin the butter until transparent. Place in
I;3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1 10-ounce) package frozen spinach 
D;bed of cooked noodles or rice.
I;1/2 lb ground veal, pork or turkey 
I;1 cup (4 oz) Grated Processed American Cheese (or which ever you like)
I;Cookie
I;1 pound green fettuccine, cooked
D;and use the mushroom soaking water for soup or whatever.) Chop the
I;250 gm Rohu fish
I;1 1/2 to 2 lbs. hamburger
D;   and set aside to cool.
I;1 large red onion, chopped
D;into the boiling broth. Add chicken, meatballs and endive. Cook 30
I;8 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
I;1 tsp vanilla extract
I;2 tablespoons dry Chinese black beans, roughly chopped
I;pinch of clove
D;Carciofi Ripeni
I;1 cup pecans coarsely chopped
I;1 1/2 quart water
I;1 can black beans -- rinsed and drained (15-ounce)
D;Worcestershire sauce, garlic, pepper, and bottled hot pepper sauce. Cover and
I;8 boneless skinless chicken breasts, cooked
D;Cook bell pepper and mushrooms in margarine, stirring
D;then coconut, and dropping chocolate ice cream balls into melted
D;6 servings (about 3 quarts).
D;patties. Place in baking dish. Bake for 25 min. at 375°. Remove from oven.
I;3 medium onions
I;1/4 tsp (scant) cumin seeds (or a generous 1/4 tsp ground cumin)
I;Grated Cheddar or Parmesan cheese
D;peppers (chopped), and the parsley.  Cook, stirring occasionally, for 15
D;a colander so as not to break the pieces. Stir the oregano in to the
D;seasonings. Cover and simmer 20 min. Cook macaroni; drain. Arrange macaroni,
D;Special equipment
D;garlic, and shallots until soft and translucent. Add the parsley and
D;slices around edge of serving platter. (Place rounded edge of onion out.)
D;hint of orange.
I;1/2 cup chopped almonds
D;mixtureover shrimp.
D;garlic in the olive oil for a few minutes. Add the parsley tomatoes and
I;1 can Golden Mushroom soup - by Campbell soup
I;1 to 2 zucchini squash (unpeeled),
D;On a floured board, roll dough 1/16-inch thick. Cut into 2-inch circles,
I;1      quart         bread crumbs -- oven toasted
I;For stew
D;Shape dough into 1-inch balls; roll into 2 inch long
I;Wet
I;1/3 cup sugar
I;Pecos Pecan Cobbler
D;occasionally, until bell pepper is crisp-tender. Stir
I;1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
I;Chopped parsley
D;Raspberries
D;Most of the time when we're invited to dinner or a potluck, a request is
D;and sugar; bring to a boil. Cool to room temperature. Set aside in a
I;2 Cups un-sifted flour
D;content of the turnips, they can take from 15 to 30 minutes. The turnips are
D;Prep: 20 min, Cook: 20 min
D;processor until they are the consistency of crumbs.  Make the icing by 
I;3 golden delicious apples  pared cored  cut in wedges
I;Melt; Whisk in and Bake:
D;marinade over seafood in bag. Close bag tightly, then turn to evenly
D;of cake to make 1/2-inch-thick layer. Reattach pan sides, leaving cake
D;should fit on an oven rack with at least an inch or two of empty space
I;About 200g celeriac (1/2 small celeriac)
D;The Carolinas In the Carolinas, the barbeque regions are not defined
D;Hobo Supper for One
D;water. Add yeast mixture and beat until blended. Remove whisk and fit
D;pasta is tender. Dump this into the big soup pot with the rest of
I;cook on
I;1 medium onion finely chopped
D;on the stove or in the microwave on high). Brush some of the warm glaze
D;minutes. Meanwhile, place the fricassee sauce in a small saucepan over
D;in small microwave-safe bowl. Microwave at HIGH (100%) 30 seconds; stir. If
I;1 egg white beaten
D;-On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough, working from the center
D;sodium, 2 grams fiber
I;2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
D;Posted by: Jackie H.
D;-Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic,
D;Sesame Noodles
I;French fried onions
I;For the Meatballs:
D;from Mountain Breeze
I;Sliced ripe olives, if desired
D;minutes with a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a hand-held mixer).
I;small piece bay leaf
I;Boston lettuce
I;Dough:
I;2 c. mini marshmallows
D;Crab Salad Melt St. Pete Times
D;Brie into wedges.
I;Tortilla chips
D;Orange Vinaigrette Brown Rice Salad
I;3 tablespoons water
D;3 minutes.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
D;seasoned salt and thyme, place on a roasting pan and bake for 30
D;Alternate: you can sauté the meatballs in olive oil until brown and
D;Servings: 24
I;Blood Orange Glaze (Recipe Below)
D;fat off the surface.
I;Beef Bourguignon
D;Immediately add the noodles, stirring to coat evenly. Remove from the
D;crumbs onto the side of the cheesecake.
I;1/2 cup whole milk
D;* To cook the dry beans: To cook
I;4 - 5 peppercorns 
D;has
D;The eggs should resemble little cogs. Serve with grated cheese. 
I;2 doz. hamburger buns
D;to room temperature.
I;1 1/2 cups finely grated carrots (about 3 large carrots)
I;salt or fish sauce to taste
D;*Black salt can be found at Indian groceries. It isn't really an optional
I;1 cup loosely packed Italian flat-leaf parsley leaves
I;1 pkg. cooked kielbasa, halved lengthwise and cut into 1/2" slices (16 oz.)
D;the bottoms frequently - they should be nicely browned on the bottom. Now
D;ingredients,
I;1 1/2 cups pitted prunes
D;lettuce.  Sprinkle almonds over the salad, then the chow mein noodles.
D;completely.  When the candied nuts are cool, chop them up in a food 
D;the French dressing. Allow to cool.
D;the refrigerator.
D;24 hours in refrigerator, turning several times.  Preheat oven to 400F.
D;Drain on paper towels and serve.
I;1 750-ml bottle Vin du Glacier wine or Essencia (orange Muscat wine)
I;Dry
D;Hamburger Gravy
I;1 teaspoon black pepper
D;inch loaf pan. Bake 60-70 minutes until wooden pick
I;2 T Vegetable oil
D;sugar and vanilla. Add dry ingredients to creamed
I;1can corn -- drained (11-ounce)
D;bowl in freezer for 15 minutes, then transfer to refrigerator. Occasionally stir
D;occasionally. Serve vegetable mixture over rice. Makes
D;5 minutes. Do not boil. Remove from the heat and pour through a
I;3mediumRed Delicious apples -- cored and chopped
I;black pepper
D;3 minutes.
I;4 cups Milk
I;2 4-oz cans sliced mushrooms
D;4 - 6 hours or on high 2 - 3 hours.
D;and water.
I;1 teaspoon red liquid food coloring
D;bowl.  Cream together butter and sugar with an electric mixer in a 
I;2-3 garlic cloves, crushed
D;Bourbon  Dogs
D;Makes 4 servings of about 6 ounces each
D;1/2 hours for the tube pan. Serve warm or at room temperature with
D;about 1 minute. Transfer mixture to a large bowl and cool 5 minutes.
D;pudding mixture. Garnish with orange slices or wedges and mint. Makes 6
D;along sides of chocolate, allowing chocolate curls to fall gently onto
I;1/4 cup orange juice
D;Bruschetta con Pomodoro e Formaggio
D;instant espresso powder. Remove from heat. Set espresso mixture aside.
D;wrappers and deep fry until the skins are golden and crispy. Drain well
D;days ahead. Keep chilled.)
I;5 T. butter
D;8 to 8 servings.
D;capacity)
I;3/4 tsp. salt
D;16 rolls. Brush with melted butter. Sprinkle with cheese
D;just be sure
I;2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
I;Fresh ground pepper to season
I;2 pints dulce de leche ice cream
I;Salt and pepper to taste 
D;glasses
D;crumbs. Shape into tiny balls. Boil meatballs a few at a time.
I;1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
I;1 teaspoon parsley flakes or freeze-dried chives
D;45 minutes until tender. Remove from oven and set aside. Place potatoes and
D;overnight before serving.
D;I cut bacon, before frying, across the strip into slices about 1/4 inch
D;chocolate on its paper wrapper in microwave. Cook on High just until
D;pan heats.
I;Blood Orange White Sangria
D;Stir Port and sugar in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar
I;1 1/2 cups crumbled blue cheese (Gorgonzola, French, Maytag or Danish)
I;8 fresh medium-size tomatoes (or 1 1/2 cups canned tomatoes)
I;6 ounces fresh spinach leaves (about 6 cups packed)
D;1/2 quart broiler proof serving dish. Arrange chicken on noodles.
D;In large saucepan, bring chicken broth and water to a boil over medium
D;Coffee-Caramel Sauce
I;1 head escarole, washed and torn into hunks
D;completely, about 45 minutes. Break into pieces using the edge of a
I;freshly ground black pepper
D;30 minutes. Transfer to a blender (reserve saucepan) and blend until
I;3 tablespoons Pillsbury Best
D;Special Sandwich
D;flour, butter and cream in crockpot; stir well. Cover and cook on LOW
D;I've never tried Gurnard fish before but my daughter has brought some
D;combine gelatin with 3/4 cup sugar in a medium bowl.  Add boiling water 
I;3 packages chopped spinach 
I;2 cups Schwan's premium vanilla ice cream, softened
D;large
D;Mix meatball ingredients and shape into 3/4 inch balls. Bring first
I;2 large eggs, slightly beaten
D;From "All The Best Potatoes"
I;2cansGreen Chiles (4-ounce) -- diced
I;6 cloves garlic
I;2 tablespoons light corn syrup
D;almost melted. Remove from heat and hot water; stir until smooth. Set
D;slices. Makes 8 servings.
I;15 small artichokes - cleaned - hearts only (frozen artichoke hearts are
I;2 cups white onions, diced 1/4 inch
I;2 tb Butter
D;NOTES : Savory pan-fried balls of ground beef, egg, bread, garlic and
D;1 hour for flavors to blend.
D;Marinated Seafood
I;1 pound to 1 1/2 lb.
D;clean, about 23 minutes. Cool in pan on rack.
D;. Barfi, Indian fudge, is a popular candy in India. It's often
I;1/4 cup  rice wine vinegar
I;3/4 cup all purpose flour
D;400 degrees F., turning once, for 7 minutes per side or until crisp and
D;Prepare pudding mix, except use the 1 3/4 cs. orange juice instead of milk.
D;Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add the noodles
D;Add to boiling chicken broth, add onions and pasta. Chop spinach
D;heat. Add marshmallows and stir until melted. Cool. Stir in lemon juice.
I;2 cups fresh ricotta cheese
I;2/3 cup orange juice
D;soup, if desired.
I;2 potatoes - peeled and cubed
D;together. Fold in cream mixture. Cover and chill until set, at least 4
I;Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F.
I;Frosting:
D;Grease 2 large baking sheets. Turn out dough onto lightly floured
I;3 tablespoons chopped fresh basil
I;3/4 cup milk, use 1/2 cup water and 1/4 cup vinegar for spicier flavor
I;2 Potatoes, Cubed
D;Chayote Souffle
I;1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1 c. unsweetened tomato juice
I;1 can (2lbs+ Italian Tomatoes (or may use crushed tomatoes or tomato
D;preheated 350°F oven 10 minutes.
I;1/2 cup Italian-flavored bread crumbs
D;serving.)
I;1 1/2 cups fresh or  frozen blueberries
I;1/4 cup chili sauce
D;spread 2 T butter thickly in a 9 X 13-inch baking pan
D;into one."
D;place, cut sides up, on a baking sheet. Toast under
I;tablespoons oil reserved
I;1 1/2 cup salsa
D;Line a 15 in. X 10-in. X 1-in. baking pan with foil and butter the foil;
D;flakes easily with a fork.
D;This Recipe takes about 30 minutes to make. Rotel Mexican style is a little
D;ingredients in a separate bowl; add to creamed banana mixture. Stir in
I;1 T parsley, finely chopped 
D;minutes; discard bay leaves.
D;Transfer pudding to a bowl, cover and chill thoroughly. Before serving, fold
I;1/2 cup olive oil 
I;c Butter;NO Margarine,Unsalted
D;Chill a small mixing bowl and beaters. Meanwhile, soften gelatin in cold
I;1 tablespoon fresh ginger grated
I;Plum Sweet-and-Sour Sauce
D;coconut, baking soda and pumpkin pie spice in medium
D;1 serving = 2 Tablespoons 2 Tablespoons = free exchange.
D;interfere with moderation
I;2 cups chopped fresh, frozen, or leftover vegetables of your choice
I;3 slices sharp process
D;Bake until fish flakes easily.
D;the cooked onions.
D;Sprinkle whole pecans on the bottom of the prepared pan. Evenly
I;2/3 c. water
D;Saute for 5 minutes (do not brown). Add flour and mix
D;Form into small, roughly shaped meatballs, using a scant tablespoon
I;Categories : Meat:Beef
D;Pour into a pitcher, and add veggie juice, Worcestershire sauce, hot sauce
D;Then stir in marshmallows and M & M's. Drop teaspoonfuls onto wax paper.
I;Salt and ground black pepper
D;workers. One of these holy men was Israel ben Eliezer, commonly called
D;salad.
D;Put ground beef into a blender or cut meat into 3 or 4 pieces and put into
D;stiring constantly.
D;stirring until soft but not brown. Add the lentils and
I;1 package (3 ounces) cream cheese, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
I;Biscotti di Anice
I;1 cup yellow cornmeal
I;1 tsp Baking powder
D;from: www.allrecipes.com
I;fish in pot. Put onion, parsley and grated rinds and oil over fish. Cover and
D;bowl; sprinkle on top of cookies. Place on greased cookie
D;health and teeth. Well put aside your fears about being
D;For the frosting:
D;Amish friends gave me this recipe after we had it at a frolic (work party)
D;bread in whites and then dredge in bread crumbs. Arrange on greased cookie
D;Alligator Sauce Piquante
I;salt to taste
I;Juice of 1/2 a lemon
D;balls; shape into crescents. Bake 12 to 15 minutes.
I;1 (2 oz) jar pimentos (optional)
I;1 T Rum
D;sauce. Pour over meat patties and serve at once. Makes 6 servings.
I;1 tablespoon cornstarch
D;tender, turning veal every 30 minutes, about 2 hours. Cool veal
I;1/2 pound angler fish fillets, sliced into 1/2-inch slices
D;skillet over medium heat; whisk in flour. Cook 1 minute. Add reserved pan
D;minutes or until sauce has slightly thickened. Serve sauce
I;salt and black peppercorns
I;1/2 teaspoon garlic powder or salt.
D;8 to 10 minutes or until beef is no longer pink. Pour off drippings.
I;Celery leaves
D;Brush dough with egg mixture. Bake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature
D;bowl. Beat 100 times until mixture is smooth.
D;or till done.
I;4 teaspoons baking powder
I;1/4 to 1/2 soup can water
D;Yield approximately 2 1/2 cups
D;10-12
D;20 minutes until brown.
I;2 cups all-purpose flour
I;2 tbsps dry sherry
I;1 teaspoon Leaf rosemary
I;6 whole cloves
D;in plastic wrap and freeze until ice cream is hardened, about 4 hours.
I;Juice of 1 orange
D;saucepan in ice, and beat at low speed of electric mixer until frosting holds 
D;peeled cored 8 ts Sugar/cinnamon mixture - and sliced Maple syrup Preheat oven
D;about 5 cups
I;1 t. grated onion
I;1 jalapeno chile, stemmed, seeded and roughly chopped
I;For the custard filling:
D;different kinds of paprika - mild, sharp, or sweet. Taken there by
I;1/3 cup butter or margarine
D;and dash pepper. Shape into 6 patties. Blend egg and
I;1/3 cup Butter, melted
D;Heat butterscotch or chocolate chips and butter in saucepan. Stir
D;These cakes are great for parties because they can be completely
I;Cilantro sprigs for garnish
D;In large skillet, cook gound beef and onion over medium
D;Drain tomatoes, reserving 1/4 cup liquid. Chop tomatoes (if you didn't already
I;chives with blossoms, optional
I;Garden Herb Ranch Dressing:
D;Time: 10 min
I;Black pepper to taste
D;ALMOND CRESCENTS:
I;1 Tbsp Parsley 
D;vegetables are cooked, but still firm. Serve with the remaining snipped
D;let cool slightly.
D;allspice and crushed red pepper and stir 20 seconds. Add chicken stock,
I;2 cups blood orange juice, strained (about 8 to 10 oranges)
D;spinach, cook until tender, stir in the cheese and serve
D;Refrigerate:  overnight.
I;1/2 package (16-oz.) twin French bread loaves, cut in 1/4-inch slices
I;1 lg. onion, sliced
D;Pat lamb dry and sprinkle with pepper and 1 teaspoon salt. Heat 1
D;Combine flour and sugar; mix well. Beat egg, add to
D;****Editor's note: Cinnamon oil can be found in some pharmacies or at
D;margarine or olive oil, lemon and orange juices, honey, and the
D;minutes longer. While toast is baking place apple slices in small saucepan with
I;scraps & pieces from leftover ham
D;light and fluffy. Add orange rind, egg yolks and orange
D;pastry around chicken and asparagus. Wet and pinch together all edges,
I;1/4 c Brown sugar
D;skillet and sauté until onion begins to soften, about 4 minutes. Add
D;Heat oil in heavy large pot over medium-high heat. Add bones and brown
D;Topping Directions
D;and/or cinnamon if using. Simmer about 2 hours, or until apples are
D;the crust to come all the way to the top of the pan.
I;Beef Steak-Potato Scallop
I;4 cups water 
D;Cheddar Corn Country Spoon Bread
D;For batter:
D;pepper. Place in 11-3/4x7-1/4x1-3/4-inch glass baking dish; cover tightly
D;Place the salmon in the crockpot. Add the juice.
D;In large bowl, beat butter with sugar until well combined. Beat in eggs,
D;Ricotta cheese makes this lighter and less rich than a standard
D;Accompaniments:
I;1 tsp Finely grated lemon rind
D;1 inch to create a water bath.
I;1/4 cup Irish cream liqueur
D;Add tequila.
D;Chi Tan T'ang (Egg Drop Soup)
I;12 bouillon cubes or to taste
I;1/2 tsp Cinnamon
D;fat-free milk.
D;is thoroughly firm.
D;squeeze
D;-Discard some of the fat. Add the anchovies, garlic, rosemary and chili
I;1/4 cup Seasoned bread crumbs 
I;ORANGE SYRUP
D;parsley, soy flour and whole wheat flour. Stir. Stir in (slowly, in
D;Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Combine the firs six
D;and whipped cream, if desired.
I;chopped pecans walnuts or sliced
D;Melt shortening and butter and cool. Mix eggs,
D;crimping the edge with your fingers. Set finished dumpling in a lightly
D;Add the escarole to the broth. In a separate bowl, combine the
D;buy them chopped).
D;large punch bowl.
D;measuring cup and stir until yeast dissolves. Let yeast mixture stand
D;to make 3/4 cup.
D;Melt butter and evenly distribute over cake mix. Add water to fruit juices
I;2 Teaspoons fresh chopped parsley
D;degrees F; 4 hours. Remove the meat from the oven and set aside to cool.
D;In medium bowl with fork, mix flour, cornmeal, sugar, baking powder and
D;Cooking time : 30 minutes
I;1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick
D;time so keep the yolks seperated from each other.
D;Pour off all but 1 tablespoon fat from skillet, then cook onion and
D;make it soggy.
D;Turn the oven off, but leave the cheesecake inside. After an hour,
I;1/2 tsp. Salt
D;simmer 3 minutes to blend flavors. Return hamburgers to
D;very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in egg
D;day ahead. Cover and refrigerate)
I;For the Sauce:
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter 8x8x2-inch metal baking pan. Using
D;http://kid.allrecipes.com/directory/2246.asp
I;1 1/2 cups well-shaken buttermilk
I;Freshly grated Romano cheese (for  serving)
D;Denise
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding06.html
D;you'll lose the smoky taste.
I;1 can tomato soup
D;them the traditions of eastern Europe, including their manner of dress
D;Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position; heat oven to 325 F. Spray a
D;minutes longer. At low speed,
D;without removing lid. Stir and serve. Serve with grated cheese on top, if
I;2 Tbsp instant coffee (granules, powder, crystals)
I;2 tablespoons coarsely chopped garlic
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Toss the first three ingredients together to
D;registers 170 to 175 F on thermometer, 2 to 3 minutes. Immediately
I;1      package       (10 oz.) frozen chopped spinach -- cooked and
D;(divided) 1/4 cup chopped walnuts Egg wash Raw sugar for garnish Preheat
D;the lemon quarters, then discard. In a small bowl, stir together the
D;Stir in the feta cheese and serve immediately.
D;chocolate chips. Mold scant tablespoon dough around each chocolate piece,
D;Difficulty: Expert
I;1 (15 ounce) can dark red kidney beans, drained and rinsed
D;Orange Cheesecake
I;1 tsp oil
D;lime wedges, if you like.
D;ingredients, bring to a boil, simmer for 30 minutes, and then strain.
D;(if you do and it works, let me know!). To cut neatly, run a large,
D;Place drained ricotta in the bowl of a food processor, and process
D;Preheat an oven to 350 F.
I;Berry Cream (below)
D;in salt and sugar. Cook for another 2 minutes and serve hot.
I;1/2     cup     canned tomato puree
I;1 15 ounce can small while or
D;Memorial Day cookout, they'll savor meat so tender and juicy that it
I;Saute in 2 Tbsp Olive Oil:
D;the dough by 2 inches .Allow the dough to rise until it floats to the
D;recipe
D;with 1 tablespoon cheese.
D;diameter) and let steam until the water has evaporated. Gently pry the
D;a thin slice from the rounded side of each chayote half so it will sit
I;CAKE
I;-substitute
D;Source: recipe card in mail
D;its shape and loses its gloss. Add a few more drops of half-and-half if needed 
D;Drain carrots well and in a bowl toss with honey glaze and salt and
D;Whole Grain & Cereal Breads
I;Shredded or Flaked Coconut
I;additional water if required
I;splash red wine vinegar
I;1-1/4 cup flour
D;bowl of ice water and let stand, stirring occasionally, until cold,
I;2/3 c Slivered almonds
D;you stir it.
D;from heat. Stir in marshmallows, morsels, 1/2 cup nuts and
D;stir egg into milk combine egg & milk with dry ingredients
I;1 cup cheddar cheese, grated (reduced-fat sharp cheddar worked well)
D;Working with 1 cookie at a time, lightly brush undersides of cookies
I;3/4 c Milk
D;your fingers or pull it with two forks. Place the shredded meat in a large
D;the nuts. Scrape
D;strips. Toss the asparagus, orange, grapefruit, tarragon, and onion in
D;remove to cool. Debone, then return to soup (skim grease as it
D;ceramic baking dish.
D;oranges and often called Dundee) because other types made the ice cream
I;1 small red chilli, de-seeded and finely chopped
D;Romano cheeses; mix in the prosciutto or ham. Pour in the drained hot pasta
D;simmer 5 minutes. Fry meatballs lightly in olive oil in a separate
D;poke holes in veal and push garlic mixture in). Coat outside of veal
D;made by my friend Joellen, a redhead of the I Love Lucy variety, who
I;1/4 cup packed brown sugar
D;spring form pan.
D;chocolate squares. Place curls decoratively atop cake, mounding
D;I assume you could do this over charcoal too. You can get the same
I;Eggnog Sauce:
I;removable bottom
D;Bourbon Pumpkin Pie St. Pete Times
D;Ice cream can be made 1 week ahead.
I;4 oz cream cheese, softened
D;275-degree oven (no convection) for 90 minutes, until the cheesecake is
D;teaspoon meat mixture for each.    In large skillet, heat olive oil over
I;2 Tbsp. olive oil
I;1 cup Mozzarella cheese -- shredded
D;Allow six inches for spreading; each sheet will hold 3 cookies. With a
D;Rinse and drain. Combine pasta and soybeans in a mixing bowl.   Prepare
I;1 1/2 tsp vanilla
I;1 (14- to 16-oz) can whole tomatoes in juice
D;sprinkle it over the lentil mixture. Serve with hot lemon
I;1 tablespoon dark rum
I;1/2 lb lamb sausage
I;2 tablespoons packed brown sugar
I;whole cloves
D;For cake:
D;Craig Claiborne Healthy Carrot Soup
D;each between 2 chilled florentines, chocolate sides in.
I;etc.) -- *see notes
I;1/4 teaspoon pepper
D;TAFFY APPLE SALAD
D;urself
I;1/2 cup carrots
D;the serving dish.
I;1/2 cup fresh sweet cherries ; pitted and quartered
I;Cheese and Nut Loaf
I;4 anchovy fillets, packed in salt, rinsed and minced
D;Slowly add oil, buttermilk, vanilla, and melted chocolate mixture to
I;3 ounces fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
D;Raisin Bran Bread
I;sauce)
D;until very light and fluffy, 5 to 10 minutes. While still
D;topping
I;Sugar
I;3-lbs. Stewing Beef, cut up a rump roast or any boneless roast
D;more minutes.
I;6 tablespoon butter
D;Serves 4-6
D;as delicious as it is nutritionally correct. Serve with soft pita or
D;cook until sauce thickens, breaking up tomatoes with spoon, about 8
I;Vegetable oil
I;pinch of msg (ajinomoto)
D;For ice cream:
D;and smooth. Slowly add the sifted dry ingredients, making certain to
D;celery in remaining fat over moderate heat, stirring occasionally,
D;chicken into bite-size pieces.
D;2 in. square baking pan.
D;Categories :
D;cool place or the refrigerator.
D;Large mixing bowl
I;Marinade:
D;brown, stirring frequently, about 15 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon paprika,
D;this point. Lay dumplings closely together in the pan but do not let them
I;1/4 teaspoon allspice
I;with seeds, strained
D;7-inch circle. Do not roll too thin.  Arrange circles on two large,
D;any kitchen department) and press a wedge of crumbs into the bottom
D;the cooking water.
I;1 onion, cut in half and stud each half with 3 cloves
D;Taste and add salt and pepper to taste.
D;In a small bowl, combine coconut and butter. Press onto the bottom
I;Sour cream for garnish
I;1 tablespoon salt
I;1/2 pound fresh chanterelles or boletus mushrooms
D;cutting to serve.
I;1 (5 ounce) package Rice-A-Roni Chicken & Mushroom Flavor.
I;4 large (10 inch) flour tortillas
I;1      cup           water
I;2 T Butter
D;NOTES : Mastercook Formatted by Doug ({bulldog9@...})
D;about 2 hours, then cover and keep frozen. (Can be made 3 days ahead.
I;1 c. prepared stuffing mix
D;and practical, with chunks of chocolate and a sprinkling of spice.
I;Grated zest of 1/2 orange
I;1 env. (7 grams) Lemon D-Zerta
I;Filling
D;onto
I;1 cup seashell pasta  
D;1.7, Very lean meat protein: 0.1
I;1/2 cup chopped walnuts
D;Beat eggs lightly; beat in sour cream until smooth. Spoon about 1 teaspoon
I;1 ts Vanilla
I;stems and seeds removed*
I;1 Pkg (8 oz/250 g) cream cheese, softened
D;of each tortilla. Roll up; place seam side down in sprayed
I;Black Pepper - to taste
I;-Muffuletta Bread (or Any Good Italian Bread)
D;and refrigerate any lefterovers. Makes 16 snacks.
D;Pour about 2 T of rum over each layer. Butter-Cream
I;1/2 pint (about) coffee ice cream
I;Oil ; for deep frying
D;This is a light and refreshing dessert that is very easy to make. I am not
I;2 cups milk
D;covered. Let stand 20 minutes. Preheat oven to 350øF. Cover baking dish with
D;Add 2 tbsp. chili paste and stir until smooth.
D;brownies into squares.
D;Bake 40 minutes to 45 minutes.
I;Makes 2-1/2 cups
I;6 tablespoons sugar
D;"A tasty biscuit with a flavour kick courtesy of bell pepper and
I;Coating:
I;for the chicken salad:
D;stirring occasionally, until golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Add tomatoes
D;Cover and simmer another 30 mins .
I;fresh dill
I;6 sundried tomato halves, reconstituted and chopped
I;1 cup Peanut Butter
I;shortening for deep fryer ( or frying pan)
D;In large bowl of heavy-duty mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat 5
I;Shells
I;Kosher salt
I;Few sprigs mizuno leaves or rocket
D;container and harden in freezer, about 1 hour. Let soften in
D;no-salt-
D;baking dish just large enough to hold onions. Cut bacon into 1/4 inch
D;ASSEMBLY: To assemble cake, place bottom layer
I;Milk
I;1 lb peanut butter (creamy)
D;Grind the graham crackers into small crumbs in a food processor. Add
D;In a separate pot over medium heat, bring the broth to a boil. In
I;2 large eggs, beaten 
I;1 tablespoon fresh basil leaves -- thinly sliced
I;Salt, to taste
D;to make sure it's okay.)
D;This was posted in another group a few years ago and I decided to try
D;NOTE: Don't even want to THINK about the nutritional information! ;-)
I;1/4 cup acini di pepe pasta or any small soup pasta
D;Place softened ice cream in medium bowl. Using plastic spatula, fold
D;another hour, remove the sides of the springform pan and put the
I;1 slice bread -- thin
D;cake; press gently to adhere (band will be higher than cake). Repeat
I;12 toasted bread triangles or 3
I;CREAM CHEESE FILLING:
D;9-inch pie pan with the fold in the center. Unfold the dough and fit the
D;This bread is always a hit!
D;Bake at 350 Degrees F. oven until cheesecake is set, about 1 hour.
I;1 (28 oz.) can whole tomatoes
I;5 slices bacon, cooked crisp and crumbled or 1/2 pound sausage, cooked and
D;cylinders. Bake 12 to 15 minutes. Cool. Dip each
D;This cake improves in flavor if made at least 1 day ahead and kept, in
I;1 store-bought graham cracker crust (or make your own  favorite recipe)
D;Bonfire Toffee
D;1 tablespoon water; dip patties into egg, then crumbs.
D;minutes. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with milk.
I;1/4 cup garlic, coarsely chopped
I;Beer; Any Brand, To Cover
D;Can be prepared in 45 minutes or less.
I;cheese, shredded
D;minutes. Serve warm.
D;Bake:  crust at 350 Degrees F. for 10
I;4 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
D;boiling orange juice. Remove from heat. Stir in softened gelatin. Cool
D;in cooking fat in frying pan. Season chops on both sides with salt and
I;2 tablespoons purchased stir fry
D;stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until custard is thick enough
I;Large resealable plastic bag
I;3 c Cut-up, cooked chicken
D;   garlic, bell pepper, red pepper flakes and mushrooms. Bring to
D;a preheated 400 degree F oven for 30 minutes.)  When the eggplants are
D;tiny meat balls (shown are about the size of a golf ball, but
D;bread. Makes about 2 3/4 cups. May be used for appetizer or main
D;Citrus Fish - Slow Cooker
D;carrots and continue to braise until carrots and lamb are tender, 20 to
D;Cut eggs in half lengthwise. Remove yolks and set whites aside. In small
I;4 c Pared, sliced apples
D;Campfire Baked Beans
I;Grind together:
D;keep stirring!
I;2               cans  spaghetti sauce -- (26.5 ounce)
I;1 roasted Poblano pepper -- skinned and chopped
I;2 cups firmly packed thinly sliced napa or savoy cabbage
D;Mandarin Orange Cheesecake
I;egg wash
D;balls and chill. Roll each ball out into a pie shape and cut into 16
D;Heat thoroughly.
D;cocoa powder and 7 tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan. Stir over
D;about 2 hours.
D;Basil Ice Cream
D;spacing evenly. Place 2 almond slices in each rosette. (Can be made 1
I;1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon solid vegetable shortening
I;Baked Figs
D;butter cream. Repeat with second layer. Place third
D;Place
I;1 (10 oz.) can frozen concentrated cream of shrimp soup
D;This is my mother's recipe.  I learned to make it when I was 16 and I've
D;Spoon 1/2 t. brown sugar in peach cavity; pour 1/2 t. vinegar over brown sugar.
D;flour with 1/2 cup water, stir into cooking liquid in small saucepan and
I;The Beans:
I;12 cups water 
D;8" square pan. Smooth top so batter is in even layer to cover pan
D;tender. Makes 4 servings.
D;wrapped-heart mustard cabbage, also called swatow or dai gai choy.
D;cabbage. For the pickles, choose the level of sharpness that pleases you
I;Jack Cheese
I;2 garlic cloves minced
D;Arrange bones around veal. Add broth, wine, tomatoes, tomato paste and
D;serve immediately.
D;Variations~~~
I;etc.
I;1 12-ounce package of chocolate chips
D;slightly. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Refrigerate cake.)
I;1 12 ounce carton creamed
I;total)
D;batty.
D;another five minutes or so.
I;sliced 1/2 cup chopped tomatoes
D;Syrup:
I;4 6 to 8-oz salmon fillets or steaks, cut 1" thick
I;warm flour tortillas
I;1 tsp. vanilla
D;a knife Then crimp with the tines of a fork. Repeat with remaining pasta
D;the meatballs to the hot broth, bring to a simmer. 5.) Cook for one
I;Olive oil spray
D;still in the springform pan. Chill the cake for at least 2 more hours.  
D;until soup returns to a simmer. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer
I;1 cup raisins
D;Yield: 125 (1/2 cup) servings
D;other hot sauce).
I;1/2 c Boiling water
I;jar)
I;2 lbs. ground beef
I;papaya, and kiwi)
D;ingredients 3 minutes or until light & fluffy. At low speed, beat in
I;Fresh ground pepper
I;Cinnamon Ice Cream (recipe follows)
I;1-1/2 lbs. butternut squash, peeled, seeded and diced
D;reduced to 1 cup, about 13 minutes. Mix water and cornstarch in small
D;Knisley. One of the best pastry chefs who ever worked in New Orleans,
I;Mandel Bread Crumb Crust:
I;3/4 cup mayonnaise, more if desired but NOT miracle whip
D;add more.
I;1/4 pound Italian flat leaf parsley, picked and chopped
I;1teaspoonskosher salt or 1/2 teaspoon table salt
I;Imported olive oil
D;Top with apple mixture.
D;a second, smaller roasting pan, (about 10 by 13 1/2-inches), inside
D;mixture. Bring just to a boil, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat
D;little as $0.75.)
I;Cakes
I;Bread stuffing or Stove Top stuffing prepared as directed on pkg.
D;Put in large crock pot or divide between two smaller crock pots.  Do the
D;Invert cake onto plate. Peel off parchment paper.
I;3 ounces (3/4 cup) Mozzarella Cheese, shredded
D;and let rise until doubled, about 45 minutes.
I;1 packages Monterey jack cheese -- (8 ounce or larger)
I;3 medium onions, chopped
I;1 tablespoon vanilla
D;taste. Set aside.
D;. Ice cream sandwiches can be assembled 3 days ahead and frozen,
I;cayenne pepper to taste
I;2 cups sweetened flaked coconut (about 5 ounces), lightly toasted
D;the sugar and the butter and process until the butter has soaked all
D;in olive oil until brown and proceed with next paragraph, or bring
D;the Turks who discovered it in the New World, paprika has been
I;2 ripe California avocados, seeded, peeled and cut into chunks
I;1/4  teaspoon orange extract
I;1 1/2 Pounds Ground Beef
D;add water. Knead for several min. Separate dough into 3 parts; knead again.
D;Roll level teaspoons of batter into balls and arrange about 3 inches
D;a cake tester inserted into the center comes out clean. The brownies
I;1 No. 2 1/2 can cling peach halves, drained
I;1 (18.25-oz.) pkg. Pillsbury Moist Supreme Yellow Cake Mix
I;3 cups White corn
I;Beets and combine with water To equal 1/2 cup plus 3 Tbsp Liquid
D;Preheat the oven to 275 degrees. Heat the oil over medium-high heat in an
I;3 bay leaves
I;Peanut oil for deep frying
D;scrape the sides of the bowl into the mixture. Stir in the cinnamon and
I;2 tablespoons white vinegar
D;warm, and allow to cool.
D;Bananas Foster Cream Pie
I;(optional additions)
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Mix all ingredients in bowl. Rub together with
I;COFFEE CAKE:
D;Whisk in 3 cups powdered sugar, then chocolate mixture, then flour.
I;1 (16-oz) can cannellini or white kidney beans, rinsed & drained (I couldn't
I;2 cup Chicken stock (2 pkg chicken cube mix + water also works)
D;Spoon drained beans into a 3 1/2 quart slow cooker. Add
I;1 Can Cream Of Chicken Soup
D;oven to 475F. Place the onion slices and reserved giblets in the
D;This recipe serves 4
I;Accompaniment: pumpernickel and rye bread sticks
D;Blend milk, molasses and butter into eggs. Stir in cereal
I;HOMEMADE FILLING:
I;6 medium carrots, cut crosswise into 2 1/2-inch pieces
D;6 (1-inch)  slits into top of pastry using a sharp knife. Combine egg and 1
D;shortening until mixture resembles fine crumbs. In a small bowl, beat egg
I;2 tablespoons flour
I;2 slices bacon fried, drained and
D;Hi! Here's a recipe for a fresh apple salad that we make all the time
D;diagonally; overlap 2 trianges atop each. Combine
D;add spinach, put peeled chicken back in, stir in the cheese and serve
I;2 TBLS apple cider vinegar
D;up. Add dried apricots and pitted prunes. Cover and bake 1 1/2 hours.
I;4  tablespoons chicken fat, removed from broth
I;1 Onion -- chopped
I;Butter
D;25 min. Makes 6 servings.
D;noodle kugel, which features a tantalizing contrast of pepper and
I;hot mustard to taste
D;Spread frosting between cake layers and over top and sides. Cake keeps,
D;a little of the dressing over the meat and marinate briefly in the
I;1/4 lb butter
D;1 cup flour.  Mix well.  Add remaining flour and mix until smooth. Fill
D;making sure not to leave any openings. Place pastries on a lightly
D;Yields: 8 servings
I;Fresh corriander to garnish { Optional }
D;let
I;1 whole egg
D;Grand Marnier Apricot Bread Pudding With Caramel Sauce
I;1 cup heavy whipping cream
I;1/2 teaspoon black pepper
I;tomatoes.
D;Make a thick past of the Roquefort, butter,cayenne,salt and pepper. IN large
I;1 large egg white
D;Cook on high 30 seconds.
I;1 or 2 eggs
