T;CANDY BAR SMOOTHIES
I;INGREDIENTS:
I;14 ounces Chocolate Sweetened Condensed Milk
I;1 cup Vanilla Ice Cream
I;2 Candy Bars (Your Choice) -- broken into pieces
I;2 cups Crushed Ice
D;DIRECTIONS:
D;In blender container, combine all ingredients. Blend
D;until smooth. Serve immediately.
D;Yield: 2 Servings
D;HEALTHIER HALLOWEEN TREAT ALTERNATIVES
D;Is it ironic that October is also Dental Hygene month?
D;It's scary what excessive candy can do to your kids
D;health and teeth. Well put aside your fears about being
D;the not-so-cool parents on the block and try passing out
D;some of these healthier treats:
D;Sugarless gum
D;Corn nuts, peanuts, or trail mix
D;Small individual bags of pretzels or popcorn
D;Packages of sugar-free cocoa
D;Pre-packed cheese and crackers
D;Hand out party favors or special pencils/erasers.
D;It's a good idea to give your kids a nutritious meal
D;before they go trick-or-treating. This will prevent
D;sugar highs and nasty upset tummies!
T;Bloody Mary Jolly Style St. Pete Times
I;1/2 glass hot and spicy V8 juice
I;1/2 glass Clamato
I;1 pinch horseradish
I;1 dash Worcestershire sauce
I;1 dash Tabasco sauce
I;1 teaspoon olive juice
I;1 pinch celery salt
I;1 pinch black pepper
I;1 1/2 ounces vodka
D;Combine ingredients in a glass and stir.
D;Garnish with a lemon or lime wedge, chunk of cheese and an olive.
D;Sandy U.
D;Bourbon Pumpkin Pie St. Pete Times
T;Pie pastry for single-crust pie
I;15-ounce can (2 cups) pumpkin puree
I;3/4 cup sugar
I;2 eggs
I;3/4 cup heavy cream
I;3/4 cup whole milk
I;2 tablespoons bourbon or rum
I;11/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
I;1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
I;1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;Sweetened whipped cream, to serve
D;-Preheat oven to 375.
D;-On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough, working from the center
D;until you have a 12-inch round. Fold the dough in half and ease it into a
D;9-inch pie pan with the fold in the center. Unfold the dough and fit the
D;pastry into the pan. Trim and flute the edges and prick the crust all over
D;with a fork.
D;-Freeze for at least 30 minutes.
D;-Press a sheet of foil into the bottom of the pie shell. Bake for 20
D;minutes. Remove the foil and bake another 5 to 8 minutes, or until the crust
D;is pale golden. If the pastry starts to puff up, press the bottom gently
D;with a large spatula to flatten.
D;-Fill immediately or cool on a rack.
D;-To make the filling, in a large bowl whisk together the pumpkin, sugar and
D;eggs. Then whisk in the cream, milk, bourbon, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg and
D;salt. Pour into the pie shell.
D;-Bake until the filling is set at the edges and a knife inserted near the
D;center comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Cool on a wire rack before serving
D;at room temperature.
D;-Serve topped with whipped cream.
D;Makes 6 to 8 servings.
D;Source: Brooke Dojny's Dishing up Maine (Storey Publishing, 2006, $19.95)
D;Sandy U.
T;Crab Salad Melt St. Pete Times
I;2 whole wheat English muffins
I;3 tablespoons reduced fat mayonnaise
I;3 tablespoons water
I;1 tablespoon Old Bay seasoning
I;14 cup snipped chives
I;2 stalks celery, sliced
I;6 oz. canned, jumbo lump or backfin crab, drained
I;Salt and freshly ground black pepper
I;1 ounce reduced-fat Swiss cheese, sliced or shredded
D;-Preheat broiler or toaster oven. Split English muffins in half and toast.
D;-While muffins are toasting, mix mayonnaise, water, Old Bay seasoning and
D;chives together in a medium size bowl. Add celery and crab. Mix well. Add
D;salt and pepper to taste.
D;-Spoon crab salad onto muffin halves. Place cheese over the crab and return
D;to the broiler. Heat just until cheese melts.
D;Serves 2.
D;Source: Prevention's Fit and Fast Meals in Minutes by Linda Gassenheimer
D;(Rodale, $19.95)
D;Sandy U.
T;Sesame Noodles
I;1 pkg. linguine (16 oz)
I;6 cloves garlic, minced
I;6 T. sugar
I;6 T. safflower oil
I;6 T. rice vinegar
I;6 T. soy sauce
I;2 T. sesame oil
I;2 t. chili sauce
I;6 green onions, sliced
D;Bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add linguine, and cook until al
D;dente, about 8 to 10 minutes. Drain and transfer to a serving bowl. Meanwhile,
D;place a pan over medium high heat. Stir in the garlic, sugar, oil, vinegar, soy
D;sauce, sesame oil and chili sauce. Bring to a boil. Stir constantly until the
D;sugar dissolves. Pour the sauce over the linguine and toss to coat. Garnish with
D;the green onions and sesame seeds. Serves 6
D;Notes from the cookbook: This sweet and spicy sauce pairs perfectly with
D;linguine. These are the best sesame noodles I've ever had!
D;Source: AllRecipes
T;Squash Rolls St. Pete Tomes
I;1 cup low-fat milk
I;2 tablespoons canola oil
I;12 cup sugar
I;1 teaspoon salt
I;1 package active dry yeast
I;14 cup warm water
I;1 cup cooked winter squash, mashed
I;1 cup whole wheat flour
I;3 12 to 4 cups bread flour
D;-In a saucepan, heat milk, oil, sugar and salt to lukewarm, stirring to
D;dissolve sugar.
D;-In the large bowl of an electric mixer, dissolve yeast in warm water. Stir
D;in milk mixture, squash, whole wheat flour and 1 cup of bread flour. Beat
D;until smooth. Gradually incorporate remaining flour until dough is easy to
D;handle.
D;-Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic,
D;about 5 minutes.
D;-Place in an oiled bowl, turning to coat top. Cover with plastic wrap and
D;let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 1½ hours. The dough is ready
D;if a slight indentation remains when you press it.
D;-Punch down dough and divide and shape into 1 inch balls, placing three
D;balls each into 24 greased muffin cups. If making loaves, divide dough in
D;half, shape into 2 loaves and place in greased loaf pans. Cover with a cloth
D;and let rise until doubled, about 45 minutes.
D;-Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Bake until light brown, about 15 to 20 minutes
D;for rolls and 40 to 45 minutes for loaves.
D;Makes 24 rolls or 2 loaves.
D;Source: Baking with the St. Paul Bread Club by Kim Ode (Minnesota Historical
D;Society Press, $24.95)
D;Sandy U.
T;Lamb Hunter-Style St. Pete Times
I;1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
I;3 pounds boneless lamb shoulder, trimmed of fat and cut into 2-inch pieces
I;Salt to taste
I;4 anchovy fillets, packed in salt, rinsed and minced
I;2 garlic cloves, finely minced
I;2 to 3 tablespoons finely chopped rosemary or 1 teaspoon dried rosemary
I;1/2 teaspoon finely minced red chili pepper or crushed red pepper flakes
I;to taste
I;11/2 cups dry white wine
I;1/4 cup good quality red wine vinegar
D;-Preheat oven to 325 degrees.
D;-Heat the oil in a large, heavy ovenproof pot or casserole over medium high
D;heat. When the oil is nice and hot, add the lamb without crowding and season
D;lightly with salt. Cook, stirring and turning the meat until the lamb is
D;lightly golden, 5 to 6 minutes. Do this in two batches, if necessary. With a
D;slotted spoon, transfer the lamb to a large plate.
D;-Discard some of the fat. Add the anchovies, garlic, rosemary and chili
D;pepper and cook over medium heat, stirring with wooden spoon for 1 to 2
D;minutes. Return the lamb to the pan and stir the pieces around briefly to
D;coat them with the savory base. Add the wine and vinegar and bring to a
D;simmer.
D;-Cover the pot and place on the middle rack of the oven. Bake for 1½ to 2
D;hours, or until the meat is tender enough to be cut with a fork. At the end
D;of cooking there should be just enough sauce to coat the meat. If too much
D;is left in the pan, transfer the meat to a large, warm platter and reduce
D;the sauce over high heat. Pour the sauce over the lamb, taste for seasoning
D;and serve.
D;Serves 4 to 6.
D;Source: Biba's Italy by Biba Caggiano (Artisan, $29.95)
D;Sandy U.
T;Bloody Mary St. Pete Times
I;1 1/2 ounces vodka
I;1/2 cup tomato juice
I;2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
I;Worcestershire sauce to taste
I;Tabasco to taste
I;1 celery stick for garnish
I;1 lemon wedge for garnish
D;Combine the vodka, tomato juice, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco,
D;1 cup ice cubes and salt and pepper to taste.
D;Shake the mixture well, and strain it into a tall glass filled with ice
D;cubes.
D;Garnish the Bloody Mary with the celery stick and the lemon wedge.
D;Sandy U.
T;Bloody Mary Punch St. Pete Times
I;Ice ring:
I;Small cherry tomatoes
I;Mint sprigs
I;Punch:
I;1 42-ounce container tomato juice, chilled
I;1 1/2 cups vodka
I;2 tablespoons prepared horseradish
I;2 tablespoons lemon juice
I;2 tablespoons Tabasco garlic pepper sauce
I;1 liter seltzer water, chilled
D;Fill a 6-cup ring mold with water halfway up the side; freeze about 2 hours.
D;Arrange cherry tomatoes and mint sprigs in small clusters on ice in ring
D;mold; add enough water to fill. Freeze until firm.
D;Combine tomato juice, vodka, horseradish, lemon juice and Tabasco sauce in a
D;large punch bowl.
D;Just before serving, add seltzer and unmolded ice ring.
D;Makes 8 servings.
D;Source: Tabasco
D;Sandy U.
T;Wasabi Bloody Mary St. Pete Times
I;Bloody Mary Punch
I;1/2 fresh lime juice
I;4 1/2 teaspoons wasabi powder
I;6 cups low-salt V8 Juice
I;3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
I;1 1/4 teaspoons hot sauce
I;3/4 teaspoon salt
I;1 1/2 cups vodka
D;Combine lime juice and wasabi with a whisk, until wasabi dissolves.
D;Pour into a pitcher, and add veggie juice, Worcestershire sauce, hot sauce
D;and salt. Chill.
D;Stir in vodka and serve over ice, with a stalk of celery or pickled
D;asparagus.
D;Sandy U.
T;Chicken with Garlic, Basil and Parsley
I;1 T. dried parsley
I;1 T. dried basil
I;4 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
I;4 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
I;1/2 t. salt
I;1/2 t. crushed red pepper flakes
I;2 tomatoes, sliced
D;Preheat oven to 350. Coat a 9 ax 13" baking dish with cooking spray. Sprinkle 1
D;t. parsley and 1 t. basil evenly over the bottom of the baking dish. Arrange the
D;chicken breast halves in the dish and sprinkle evenly with garlic slices. In a
D;small bowl, mix the remaining 2 t. parsley, 2 t. basil, salt and red pepper
D;flakes. Sprinkle mixture over the chicken. Top with the tomato slices. Bake
D;covered for 25 minutes. Remove cover and continue baking 15 minutes or until the
D;chicken juices run clear. Very easy. Baked chicken seasoned with garlic,
D;parsley, basil, tomato and red pepper flakes. A very simple dinner.
D;Serves 4
D;Source: AllRecipes
T;Peanut Butter Pie
D;This is a peanut butter pie recipe that is so easy and delicious.
D;Posted by: Jackie H.
I;1 cup Cream Cheese (softened)
I;1 cup Sugar
I;1 cup Peanut Butter
I;1 cup Cool Whip
D;Mix cream cheese, sugar and peanut butter well. Fold in Cool Whip. Spread
D;mixture in a graham cracker crust and refrigerate. Enjoy!!
D;Tina
D;Owner of Creative Cutie Recipes.
T;Pumpkin Snacking Cake ThePreparedPantry
I;Ingredients
I;3 1/2 cups cake or pastry flour
I;4 teaspoons baking powder
I;1/2 teaspoon baking soda
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon
I;1/4 teaspoon allspice
I;1/2 cup shortening
I;1 cup granulated sugar
I;1 cup brown sugar
I;3 large eggs
I;1 teaspoon maple flavoring
I;1 cup canned pumpkin
I;1/2 cup milk
I;1 cup walnut pieces
D;Directions
D;Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. If you are using a dark pan, preheat to 300
D;degrees.
D;1. Mix the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and allspice
D;tighter in a
D;medium bowl. Set aside.
D;2. Cream the shortening and sugars together. Add the eggs one at a time,
D;beating after
D;each. Beat the mixture until light and fluffy.
D;3. Add the maple and pumpkin and combine.
D;4. Alternately add the flour in three additions and the milk in two,
D;starting with the flour.
D;(Adding the flour and milk in stages will better balance the batter.) Add
D;the nuts. Scrape
D;the batter into a well-greased 8 1/2 x 13-inch pan.
D;5. Bake for 50 to 55 minutes or until the cake tests done. Cool on a wire
D;rack. Serve
D;warm or cold, plain or with whipped cream.
D;Sandy U.
T;Indian Pudding
I;4 cups whole milk
I;2/3 cup finely ground cornmeal
I;1/2 cup molasses
I;4 T. unsalted butter, plus more for the dish
I;1/4 cup light or dark brown sugar
I;1/2 t. kosher salt
I;1 t. ground ginger
I;1 t. ground cinnamon
I;1/4 t. ground nutmeg, plus more for garnishing
I;1 t. vanilla extract
I;2 cups (1 pint) heavy cream, whipped to firm peaks
D;Heat oven to 350. In a large pan, over medium high heat, bring 3 cups of the
D;milk to a boil. In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining milk and the
D;cornmeal. Whisking constantly, slowly add the mixture to the boiling milk.
D;Reduce heat and simmer gently, stirring frequently, for 15 minutes. Remove from
D;heat, Stir in the molasses, butter, brown sugar, salt, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg
D;and vanilla. Transfer to a buttered 1 1/2 quart casserole dish. Set the
D;casserole in a roasting pan, pull the oven rack out halfway, and place the pan
D;on it. Carefully add enough hot water to the pan to reach halfway up the
D;casserole. Cover both pans with a single large sheet of foil. Bake for 1 hour.
D;Remove foil. Bake until the pudding is almost set but still wobbly, 1 1/2 hours
D;more. Transfer casserole to a wire rack for at least 30 minutes. Spoon onto
D;plates. Serve with the whipped cream and sprinkle with nutmeg. Serves 8 to 12
D;Source: Real Simple
D;[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
T;Festive Onions
I;4 cups sliced onions
I;5 T. butter
I;2 eggs
I;1 cup heavy whipping cream
I;Salt to taste
I;Ground black pepper to taste
I;2/3 cup Parmesan cheese
D;Preheat oven to 425. Sauté the onion sin the butter until transparent. Place in
D;a 2 quart baking dish. In a small bowl, beat the eggs well. Stir in the cream
D;and season with salt and pepper. Pour the mixture over the onions and sprinkle
D;with Parmesan. Bake, uncovered, for 15 to 20 minutes. Simple to prepare, this
D;creamy onion dish is sure the become a holiday favorite.
D;Serves 7
D;Note: I added a bit of fresh nutmeg to mine. This is basically a crustless onion
D;quiche, and it is SO flavorful. Be sure to drain off all of the butter/oil from
D;the cooked onions before adding them to the cream mixture. Sprinkle sweet
D;paprika and dried parsley over the top for lovely color.
D;Source: AllRecipes
T;Bat Wings
I;1 dozen chicken wings
I;1 cup soy sauce
I;1/3 cup honey
I;1 teaspoon ginger, crushed and chopped
D;Mix together soy sauce, honey, and ginger. Marinate chicken overnight. Grill in
D;oven or barbeque.
T;Pumpkin Bread
I;3 cups sugar
I;1 cup oil
I;3 eggs
I;2 cups pumpkin
I;1 teaspoon vanilla
I;3 cups flour
I;1 teaspoon baking soda
I;1 teaspoon salt
I;1 teaspoon nutmeg
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon
I;1 teaspoon cloves
I;1 teaspoon allspice
I;1 cup pecans, chopped
D;Mix together sugar, oil, eggs, pumpkin, and vanilla in a large bowl. Combine dry
D;ingredients in a separate bowl, add to pumpkin mixture, and stir well. Then add
D;nuts. Bake in 2 loaf pans or coffee cans in a 350F degree oven for 1 hour 10
D;minutes.
D;This bread is always a hit!
T;Halloween Drink Recipes
T;Orange Punch
I;1 gallon orange juice
I;1 liter ginger ale
I;1/2 gallon orange sherbert
D;Mix together orange juice and ginger ale. Scoop sherbert and add to punch.
T;Green Ghoul Punch
I;1/2 gallon limeade
I;1 liter ginger ale
I;1/2 gallon lime sherbert
D;Mix together juice and ginger ale. Scoop sherbert and add to punch. Add
D;marshmallows and maraschino cherries to float in punch.
D;LR FROM NOTTINGHAM ENGLAND
D;[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
T;Small Steaks with Roquefort
I;8 T. Roquefort cheese
I;4 T. butter
I;1/2 t. cayenne
I;1 t. salt
I;1/2 t. pepper
I;2 lbs. steak, 1/2" thick (use any small thin cuts)
I;2 T. olive oil
I;2 T. chopped parsley
D;Make a thick past of the Roquefort, butter,cayenne,salt and pepper. IN large
D;skillet, quickly cook steaks in olive oil on one side. Remove steaks and spread
D;Roquefort paste on the cooked side. Return to skillet. Cover and pan broil
D;slowly on other side. Sprinkle with parsley and serve. Serves 4
D;Source: My Old Recipes
D;[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
I;1/2 cup of raw rice
I;2 cans of cream of anything soup
I;8 oz. water
I;1 whole chicken cut up
I;Onion to taste
I;Chopped Celery opt.
I;salt and pepper
I;French fried onions
D;Put raw rice, soup, onion and other ingredients in 9X13 baking dish. Place
D;chicken pieces and top with the French fried onions. Bake at 350°F for 1 hour.
D;Makes enough to feed 4-6. Approximate cost per serving - $1.23
D;Frugal Tip - Stock-up on French Fried Onions during and after the holidays.
D;Use coupons offered during the holidays and you can get a large can for as
D;little as $0.75.)
D;Recipe from Tonya, Marshall, MN
T;Easy Orange Parfaits
I;1 4-serving-size pkg. cook-and-serve vanilla pudding mix
I;1 3/4 c. orange juice
I;8 ozs. vanilla or pineapple low-fat yogurt
I;3/4 c. lowfat chocolate wafer cookies (about 10) ginger snaps work good to
I;orange slices or wedges (optional) fresh mint sprig (optional)
D;Prepare pudding mix, except use the 1 3/4 cs. orange juice instead of milk.
D;Transfer pudding to a bowl, cover and chill thoroughly. Before serving, fold
D;yogurt into pudding. Divide one-third of the mixture among 6 parfait glasses.
D;Sprinkle with half the crushed cookies. Repeat layers. Top with remaining
D;pudding mixture. Garnish with orange slices or wedges and mint. Makes 6
D;servings.
D;Tina
D;Owner of Creative Cutie Recipes.
T;Peachy Pork Tenderloin
I;1 teaspoon seasoned salt
I;1 teaspoon dried thyme
I;2 pork tenderloins, about 2 pounds total
I;1/2 cup peach preserves
I;2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
I;1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Season the pork tenderloin with the
D;seasoned salt and thyme, place on a roasting pan and bake for 30
D;minutes.
D;While the tenderloins roast, combine the preserves, Worcestershire
D;sauce, and ginger in a bowl.
D;After the tenderloins have roasted for 30 minutes, remove from the
D;oven and brush liberally with the glaze. Return to the oven and bake
D;for 15 minutes more, or until internal temperature of 160 degrees is
D;reached. (The remaining glaze may be brought to a boil in a saucepan
D;over medium-high heat and served alongside the cooked tenderloins).
D;Slice and serve.
T;SHAKERS' CORN PUDDING Tampa Tribune
I;3 tablespoons butter (room temperature)
I;2 tablespoons sugar
I;2 tablespoons flour
I;1 teaspoons salt
I;3 whole eggs
I;2 cups corn (fresh or frozen), thawed
I;1 3/4 cups milk
D;Blend butter, sugar, flour and salt. Add eggs, beating well. Stir in corn
D;and milk. Pour ingredients into a buttered casserole, and bake at 325
D;degrees for 45 minutes. Stir once halfway through cooking.
D;When done, the pudding will be golden brown, and a silver knife inserted
D;will come out clean.
D;Note: Pauline Testerman says she uses frozen corn, which she chops a little.
D;The recipe is also delicious with fresh corn. The mixture can be prepared
D;ahead of baking and kept in a jar in the refrigerator. Shake well, and pour
D;into baking dish when ready to bake.
D;Sandy U.
T;Muffuletta Sandwich Tampa Tribune
I;Ingredients:
I;-Muffuletta Bread (or Any Good Italian Bread)
I;-1/4 Pound Swiss Cheese
I;-1/4 Pound Mortadella
I;-1/4 Pound Genoa Salami
I;-1/4 Pound Ham
I;-Generous Amount Jay's Muffuletta Salad
D;How to Build the Sandwich:
D;First, Muffuletta Bread is usually only found in New Orleans, but you can
D;substitute with a good Italian Bread from your local market.
D;Try to find a dense loaf about 8-inches in diameter or you can purchase
D;Muffuletta Bread online.
D;Slice the bread horizontally in half. Put a small amount of the oil from our
D;salad on both sides of the bread (this is considered the Mayonnaise).
D;On the top side of the bread, put a generous amount of Jay's Muffuletta
D;Salad, on the other half of the bread build your meats and cheese.
D;Place bottom half on top half and cut into fours.
D;Will feed two people generously. Enjoy!
D;Sandy U.
T;Bacon Cheese Fingers
D;Makes about 4 dozen.
I;1 loaf sliced sandwich bread
I;1 cup grated Swiss cheese
I;8 slices bacon, fried crisp and crumbled
I;4 tbls. mayonnaise
I;1 tbl. grated onion
I;½ tsp. celery salt
D;1. Remove crusts from bread. Place bread slices on a baking sheet.
D;2. In a bowl, combine remaining ingredients. Spread mixture on bread
D;slices.
D;3. Bake bread slices in a pre-heated 325-degree oven for 10 minutes.
D;4. Using a sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut bread slices into
D;rectangles, triangles or other shapes. (You should get about four
D;pieces from each slice of bread).
D;LR FROM NOTTINGHAM ENGLAND
T;Hotel Roanoke Peanut Soup
I;1 small onion, diced
I;1/3 tsp celery salt
I;1/4 lb butter
I;1 t salt
I;2 celery ribs, diced
I;1 tbs lemon juice
I;3 tbs flour
I;1/2 cup ground peanuts
I;2 quart hot chicken broth
I;1 lb peanut butter (creamy)
D;Melt butter in sauce pan and add onion and celery.
D;Saute for 5 minutes (do not brown). Add flour and mix
D;well. Stir in chicken broth and simmer for 30 minutes.
D;Remove from heat and strain. Add peanut butter, celery
D;salt, salt, and lemon juice. Sprinkle ground peanuts
D;on top before serving. Makes 20 1/2-cup servings.
D;Sandy U.
T;Stuffed Chicken Breasts
I;1 medium onion finely chopped
I;1 tablespoon unsalted butter
I;1 10 ounce package frozen chopped spinach thawed and drained
I;1 pound hole milk ricotta cheese
I;1 egg slightly beaten
I;1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
I;1 tablespoon oregano
I;salt and pepper
I;8 chicken breast halves bones removed but with skin
D;Cook the onions in the butter until soft. Combine with the other
D;ingredients except the chicken. Mix well. Season highly. Loosen skin from
D;the chicken breasts and place approximately 1/3 cup filling under the skin.
D;Tuck the meat and skin evenly under the breast forming a dome shape. Bake
D;the chicken in a buttered pan in a preheated 350 degree oven for 30 to 35
D;minutes until done.
D;Serves 8
D;Source unknown
D;Denise
D;Chicken
T;Fluffy Onion rolls
I;1 12 ounce carton creamed
I;cottage cheese
I;1 package Pillsbury Hot Roll
I;Mix
I;1/2 cup chopped green onion or
I;1/4 cup finely chopped onion
I;2 tablespoons butter or margarine
I;softened
I;1 egg
I;1 tablespoon butter or margarine
I;melted
I;1 tablespoon grated Parmesan Cheese
I;1 tablespoon sesame seed
D;In small saucepan, heat cottage cheese until very warm,
D;105-115 degrees. Add yeast from hot roll mix, stir to
D;dissolve. In large bowl, combine cottage cheese mixture,
D;onion, butter, egg and 1 cup flour mixture. Beat 2 minutes
D;at medium speed. Stir in remaining flour mixture. Blend
D;well. Cover, let rise in warm place until light and doubled
D;in size, 45-60 minutes. Generously grease, not oil, 16
D;muffing cups or 13 x 9 inch pan. Stir down dough. Drop
D;dough by heaping tablespoonsfuls in greased pans, forming
D;16 rolls. Brush with melted butter. Sprinkle with cheese
D;and sesame seed. Let rise in warm place until light and
D;doubled in size, 30-45 minutes. Preheat oven to 375 degrees
D;and bake 15-20 minutes until golden brown. Immediately
D;remove from pan. Makes 16 rolls.
D;Recipe from Pillsbury
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;BEEF STROGANOFF
I;1 lb beef tenderloin or round steak
I;1 large onion, sliced thin
I;1 or 2 cloves garlic, minced
I;1 c sour cream
I;dash soy sauce
I;1 T butte
I;1 1/2 - 2 cups sliced mushrooms
I;1/2 c red wine/other liquor (optional)
I;1 or 2 bouillon cubes
I;1 can Golden Mushroom soup - by Campbell soup
I;lemon-pepper seasoning
I;1 - 2 T corn starch for thickening
D;Partially freeze meat; thinly slice across the agrain into thin
D;bite-size strips and sprinkly with lemon pepper In skillet, heat
D;the oil/butter, add meat, brown quickly, add onion and garlic,
D;brown and add sliced mushrooms continuing to brown for a few
D;minutes. Add the wine, etc(or beef broth will do) and boil for
D;a minute and add enough water to completely cover, bring to a
D;boil and turn down to simmer. Add dash soy sauce and bouillon
D;cubes to taste. Simmer 30 - 45 min. Add the mushroom soup, stir
D;and simmer until mixed well. Use water and enough cornstarch to
D;get a thick gravey (but not too thick). Add the sour cream and
D;stir until mixed well and heated through, do not let it boil.
D;Serve over cooked noodles.
T;Shrimp And Chips
I;1 can cr. of mushroom soup
I;3/4 c. shrimp
I;1/2 can pimiento
I;1 c. peas
I;1 t. grated onion
I;1/2 c. crushed Blue Bell Potato Chips
D;Clean shrimp and cut in small pieces. Cut pimentos, add to mushroom
D;soup with grated onion, peas (use liquid from peas to thin the soup) and
D;lastly the crushed chips. Serve on hot biscuits or toast.
T;Brownies
I;4 squares chocolate
I;1/2 c. shortening
I;4 eggs
I;2 c. sugar
I;1/2 t. salt
I;1 t. vanilla
I;1 c. enriched flour
I;1/2 c. crumbled Blue Bell potato chips
I;1/2 c. chopped nut meats
D;Melt chocolate and shortening in the upper part of a double boiler.
D;Beat the eggs, add the sugar and beat until smooth. Add the salt,
D;vanilla, and cooled chocolate mixture. Mix well. Add flour and finely
D;crumbled chips and the coarsely chopped nut meats. Mix lightly. Use a
D;pan about 8x8x2". Line the pan with waxed paper and film this with
D;melted shortening. Pour batter into pan and bake about 30 minutes in a
D;350 degree oven. Cool in the pan for 5 min. after removing the pan from
D;the oven. Then turn onto cake cooler, remove the waxed paper. Cut the
D;brownies into squares.
T;FRUIT COCKTAIL DUMP CAKE from Tampa Trib.
I;1 can (16 ounces) fruit cocktail
I;1 can (7.5 ounces) pineapple tidbits or crushed
I;1 cup coconut
I;1 cup chopped nuts
I;1 package (18.5 ounces) yellow cake mix
I;1-1/2 sticks butter
I;Water
I;Lightly sweetened whipped cream
D;Drain fruit cocktail and pineapple, saving juices in measuring cup. Evenly
D;spread fruits, coconut and nuts on bottom of 9-by-13-inch cake pan. Cover
D;with dry cake mix.
D;Melt butter and evenly distribute over cake mix. Add water to fruit juices
D;to make 3/4 cup.
D;Sprinkle juice over top. Bake 40 minutes at 350 degrees.
D;Serve warm with dollop of sweetened whipped cream.
D;Sandy U.
T;TAFFY APPLE SALAD
I;1 TBLS flour
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;1 egg
I;2 TBLS apple cider vinegar
I;1 can (8oz) crushed pineapple; drain--reserve juice
I;4 cups(1#) chopped apples, unpeeled
I;1 cup salted peanuts
I;1 carton (8oz) coolwhip
D;Combine flour and sugar; mix well. Beat egg, add to
D;flour and sugar. Add vinegar and reserved pineapple
D;juice. Cook in small pan over low heat. Stir and cook
D;until thick. Cool. In large bowl combine chopped
D;apples, pineapple and peanuts, pour cooled dressing
D;over this mix gently. Add cool whip, mixing gently.
D;Garnish with extra peanuts if desired.
T;Blueberry Marshmallow Sauce
I;1/3 cup sugar
I;1 tablespoon cornstarch
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 cup water
I;1 pint blueberries
I;1 cup miniature marshmallows
I;1 tablespoon lemon juice
D;Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt in a 1 1/2 quart saucepan. Gradually add
D;water. Stir in blueberries. Heat to boiling, stirring frequently until
D;thickened. Cook 2 additional minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from
D;heat. Add marshmallows and stir until melted. Cool. Stir in lemon juice.
D;Chill
D;Yield approximately 2 1/2 cups
D;Source The Wonderful World Of Ice Cream
D;Denise
T;Marinated Chicken
I;1/2 cup soy sauce
I;2 cloves garlic crushed
I;2 teaspoons grated ginger
I;2 1/2 tablespoons sherry
I;1 large chicken quartered
D;Mix together the soy sauce, garlic, ginger, oil and sherry.
D;Marinate the chicken in this mixture for several hours,
D;turning occasionally. Cook the chicken under the broiler
D;and baste with the marinade. Serves 4.
D;Recipe from Calorie Controlled Dishes
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;French Omelet
I;4 eggs
I;4 T. milk
I;1/4 t. salt
I;dash of pepper
I;1 T. butter
D;1. Beat eggs until light and fluffy.
D;2. Add milk, salt and pepper.
D;3. Heat 1 1/2 t. butter in each section of the omelet pan.
D;4. Place equal amount of egg mixture in each section of pan.
D;5. Cook slowly over low heat. When underside surface is set, lift
D;omelet slightly with a spatula to let the uncooked portion flow
D;underneath, and cook.
D;6. As soon as the mixture is set, fold omelets together, cook an
D;additional 2 minutes. Serve with Spanish Sauce.
T;Spanish Sauce
I;1 (16 oz. can (2 cups) tomato sauce
I;2 T. chopped onion
I;1/4 c. chopped green pepper
I;1/4 c. butter or margarine
D;1. Simmer ingredients in saucepan for about 10 minutes.
D;2. Serve over omelet.
T;Cheesy Chicken Noodles OnLine Cookbook
D;Serves/Makes:6
I;Ingredients:
I;1 large chicken breast
I;1 package linguini pasta
I;1 can crushed tomatos (we use Rotel Mexican style)
I;6 oz (168 grm). Velveta cheese (more or less)
I;salt and pepper to taste
D;Preparation
D;Cut chicken into approximately 1 inch cubes.
D;Cook chicken until meat is no longer pink.
D;Cook pasta according to package; drain.
D;Add cheese, cooked chicken, and tomatoes.
D;Stir until cheese is melted.
D;Comments
D;This Recipe takes about 30 minutes to make. Rotel Mexican style is a little
D;spicy.
D;Sandy U.
T;Barbecued Skittlet Burgers
I;Hamburgers
I;1 pound ground beef
I;1 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 teaspoon chili powder
I;1/8 teaspoon pepper
I;1 small onion grated
I;1 tablespoon butter or
I;margarine
I;Barbecue Sauce
I;1/2 cup catsup
I;1/2 cup water
I;1/4 cup chili sauce
I;1 tablespoon brown sugar
I;1 tablespoon Worcestershire
I;Sauce
I;1 teaspoon lemon juice
I;1/4 teaspoon chili powder
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
D;Make hamburgers. Mix ground beef lightly with sals, chili
D;powder, pepper and onion. Shape into 4 patties about 1
D;inch thick. Pan fry over medium heat in butter or
D;margarine just until brown on both sides. Remove. Pour
D;off all drippings. Make barbecue sauce. Combine all the
D;ingredients in same frying pan. Heat to boiling, then
D;simmer 3 minutes to blend flavors. Return hamburgers to
D;sauce. Cover and simmer 5-10 minutes. Makes 4 servings.
D;Recipe from Family Circle
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Pasta with Beans
D;4 servings
D;Prep: 20 min, Cook: 20 min
I;1 (15oz) can tomatoes, undrained (I bought the already diced)
I;1 onion, chopped
I;1 carrot, grated
I;2 garlic cloves, minced
I;2 tbl chopped fresh parsley
I;2 tsp chopped fresh basil
I;1 tsp dried oregano
I;1/4 cup olive oil
I;1 tsp salt
I;1/2 tsp pepper
I;2 tsp sugar
I;1 (16-oz) can cannellini or white kidney beans, rinsed & drained (I couldn't
I;find either so I used the little Great Northern)
I;8 oz elbow macaroni, cooked
I;2 tbl butter
I;1/4 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
I;Garnish: fresh basil sprigs
D;Drain tomatoes, reserving 1/4 cup liquid. Chop tomatoes (if you didn't already
D;buy them chopped).
D;Sauté onion and next 5 ingredients in hot oil in a large skillet over
D;medium-high heat until onion is tender. Add tomatoes, reserved liquid, salt,
D;pepper, and sugar. Cover, reduce heat and simmer 10 minutes. Stir in beans;
D;cover and simmer 10 minutes.
D;Toss cooked macaroni with butter, top with bean mixture, and sprinkle with
D;Parmesan cheese. Serve immediately with French bread. Garnish, if desired.
D;Source: Southern Living
T;Pasta chimayo-cafe pierre
D;Category: Beverages, Pastas & Noodles, Seafood, Tarts & Pies
D;Yield: 4 servings
I;3 large Ancho chilies, diced *
I;1 cup Water, boiling
I;1 tbsp Rice vinegar
I;2 small Garlic cloves
I;1/2 tsp Dried oregano, crumbled
I;1/4 tsp Salt
I;3 tbsp Butter
I;1/2 lbs Medium shrimp, peel, devein
I;1/4 cup Tequila
I;1 1/2 cup Heavy cream
I;1/2 lbs Penne pasta
I;1/4 cup Fresh cilantro, minced
D;Procedures
D;*stem, seed and slightly crumble dried ancho chilies.
D;*** ** place chilies in medium bowl.
D;Add 1 cup boiling water and let stand 30 minutes.
D;Drain.
D;Transfer chilies to blender.
D;Add vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
D;Blend until smooth.
D;(chili paste can be prepared 1 day ahead.
D;Transfer to bowl.
D;Cover tightly and refrigerate).
D;Melt butter in heavy large skillet over medium heat.
D;Add shrimp and saute until just pink, about 3 minutes.
D;Remove skillet from heat.
D;Add tequila.
D;Ignite with match.
D;Return to heat and cook until flames subside.
D;Transfer shrimp to bowl using slotted spoon.
D;Cover with foil to keep warm.
D;Increase heat to high./ boil tequila until reduced to 1 tbsp. add cream to
D;skillet and boil until reduced to sauce consistency, about 5 minutes.
D;Add 2 tbsp. chili paste and stir until smooth.
D;Season with salt and pepper.
D;Return shrimp to sauce.
D;Meanwhile, cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water until just tender
D;but still firm to bite, stirring occasionally.
D;Drain.
D;Transfer to large bowl.
D;Pour sauce over pasta, tossing to coat.
D;Divide among plates.
D;Sprinkle with cilantro and serve
T;Cinnamon Rock Candy
D;From Quick Cooking November/December 2000
I;1 cup water
I;3-3/4 cups sugar
I;1-1/4 cups light corn syrup
I;1 teaspoon red liquid food coloring
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon oil****
I;1/3 cup confectioners' sugar
D;Line a 15 in. X 10-in. X 1-in. baking pan with foil and butter the foil;
D;set aside. In a large heavy saucepan, combine water, sugar, corn syrup
D;and food coloring. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring
D;occasionally. Cover and cook for 3 mnutes to dissolve sugar crystals.
D;Uncover; cook on medium-high heat, without stirring, until a candy
D;thermometer reads 300 degrees ( hard-crack stage), about 25 minutes.
D;Remove from the heat; stir in cinnamon oil (keep face away from mixture
D;as odor is very strong). Immediately pour onto prepared pan. Cool
D;completely, about 45 minutes. Break into pieces using the edge of a
D;metal mallet. Sprinkle both sides of cady with confectoners' sugar.
D;Store in airtight containers. Yield: about 2 pounds.
D;****Editor's note: Cinnamon oil can be found in some pharmacies or at
D;kitchen and cake decorating supply stores.
D;Nice Christmas Gifts.
D;Mona
T;TAGLIOLINI
D;This rich, simple dish is from Harry's Bar, Earnest Hemingway's hangout in
D;Venice.
I;1 stick unsalted butter
I;1 cup heavy cream
I;1 cup half and half
I;1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan + 1/4 cup more for garnish
I;1/2 cup freshly grated Romano
I;3 ounces prosciutto or ham, chopped
I;1 pound green fettuccine, cooked
I;Garnish: freshly grated nutmeg
D;In a medium gratin dish or oven-proof casserole pan, melt the butter
D;with the cream and half and half over medium heat. Stir in the Parmesan and
D;Romano cheeses; mix in the prosciutto or ham. Pour in the drained hot pasta
D;and mix thoroughly, so that all the pieces of pasta are coated. Grate a
D;little fresh nutmeg on top. Sprinkle with more Parmesan. Place pan 3
D;inches from a preheated broiler until cheese is lightly browned. Serves 4
D;to 6.
D;NOTE: Don't even want to THINK about the nutritional information! ;-)
I;French Dressing With Chutney
D;By Chef Gino
D;You may call it French Dressing if you wish, but never tell that to a
D;Frenchman.
T;THREE-CHEESE CHICKEN BREASTS IN TOMATO SAUCE
I;1/4 cup olive oil
I;6 skinless boneless chicken breast halves
I;1/2 large onion, chopped
I;2 large garlic cloves, chopped
I;1 tablespoon dried oregano
I;1 15-ounce can tomato sauce
I;1 14 1/2-ounce can Italian-style stewed tomatoes
I;1/3 cup dry white wine
I;2 bay leaves
I;8 ounces penne, freshly cooked
I;1 cup grated mozzarella cheese
I;1/3 cup grated Asiago or Romano cheese
I;1/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese
D;Preheat oven to 375°F. Butter 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish. Heat oil
D;in heavy large skillet over high heat. Season chicken with salt and
D;pepper. Add chicken to skillet;sauté until outside is white, about 1
D;minute per side; transfer to plate. Add onion, garlic and oregano to
D;skillet and sauté until onion begins to soften, about 4 minutes. Add
D;tomato sauce, stewed tomatoes with their juices, wine and bay leaves and
D;cook until sauce thickens, breaking up tomatoes with spoon, about 8
D;minutes; discard bay leaves.
D;Line prepared dish with penne. Arrange chicken over. Spoon sauce over,
D;covering chicken and pasta completely. Mix cheeses in small bowl.
D;Sprinkle cheeses over sauce. Bake until chicken is just cooked through
D;and sauce bubbles, about 20 minutes.
D;Serves 6.
D;  Bon AppétitApril 1995
D;Mona
T;Stout Pork Loin Chops
I;6 - 8 pork loin chops about 2 inches thick
I;Salt and pepper
I;8 - 10 fresh sprigs of rosemary or 3 Tbsp. dried rosemary
I;1 pint stout beer (we use Guinness, of course)
D;Place pork loin chops in deep dish. Sprinkle on both sides with salt and
D;pepper. Cover both sides with fresh rosemary sprigs and/or dried rosemary.
D;Pour entire pint of stout beer over the chops or up to the top of the dish.
D;Marinate overnight, turning once or twice. Prepare grill with medium hot
D;coals and grill pork loin chops until done, usually about 10 minutes per
D;side but cooking times can vary greatly depending on thickness of chops and
D;heat of coals.
T;Ranch Style Salad Dressing
I;1 c. mayonnaise
I;1/2 t. onion salt
I;1/4 t. MSG (optional)
I;1/4 t. black pepper
I;1/8 t. savory
I;1 c. buttermilk
I;1/4 t. garlic salt
I;1/8 t. celery salt
I;1/4 t. marjoram leaves
I;1/2 t. parsley flakes
D;Combine all ingredients. Mix well.
D;Refrigerate 30 minutes before serving.
D;Makes 2 cups.
T;Cheese "Steak" Pizza from Family Time Daily Dish
D;For a complete meal, add a salad on the side.
D;Chapter The National Cattlemen's Beef Association
D;Prep Time 10 minutes
D;Cooking Time 10 minutes
D;Serves 4
I;Ingredients
I;1 pound ground beef
I;1 small green bell pepper, cut into thin strips
I;1 small onion, thinly sliced, separated into rings
I;1 large (16 ounces) Boboli
I;2 cups mozzarella cheese, shredded
D;Directions
D;Heat oven to 400 degrees. In large nonstick skillet, brown ground beef over
D;medium heat 6 minutes. Add bell pepper and onion; cook 3 to 4 minutes or
D;until beef is no longer pink and vegetables are crisp-tender. Season with
D;3/4 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Place Boboli on baking sheet.
D;Remove beef mixture from skillet with slotted spoon; arrange on Boboli.
D;Sprinkle with cheese. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until cheese is melted; cut
D;into 8 wedges.
D;Sandy U.
T;Shrimp Cheese Fondue
I;1 (10 oz.) can frozen concentrated cream of shrimp soup
I;1/4 t. dry mustard
I;2 t. instant minced onion
I;1/2 lb. Darigold fondue cheese, cubed
I;1 (4 1/2 oz.) can shrimp
I;1/4 c. dry sherry
D;In fondue pot or heavy saucepan heat soup, mustard and onion. Turn heat
D;to low and add cubes of Darigold fondue cheese, stirring until cheese is
D;melted. Drain shrimp and dice or not, depending on size. Add shrimp
D;and sherry. If using saucepan, transfer to fondue pot, turning heat
D;very low. Serve with vegetable dippers, bread sticks or cubes of French
D;bread. Makes about 2 3/4 cups. May be used for appetizer or main
D;course.
D;Shrimp cheese fondue makes an excellent cold appetizer. Pour warm
D;fondue into 3 cup mold which has been lined with plastic wrap. Chill
D;until firm. Turn out onto plate. Remove plastic and serve as a spread
D;with crackers.
T;Hot Chicken Salad in Stuffing Crust
I;4 cups herb seasoned stuffing mix
I;1/2 cup margarine or butter, melted
I;3 eggs beaten
I;2 cups diced cooked chicken
I;1 cup chopped celery
I;1 (8oz) can water chestnuts drained and chopped
I;1/2 cup mayonaise
I;1 (2 oz) jar pimentos (optional)
I;3 TBLS lemon juice
I;1 1/2 tsp chicken bouilion
D;Pre heat oven to 350°. In a medium bowl combine
D;stuffing mix and margarine, reserve 1/2 cup. To the
D;remaining stuffing add eggs, mix well. Spoon into a
D;greased 9" pie plate; press on bottom and up side to
D;form a crust. In a large bowl combine remaining
D;ingredients except reserved stuffing. Spoon into
D;prepared crust. Top with reserved stuffing. Bake 40-45
D;minutes or until hot. Let stand 10 minutes before
D;serving. Refrigerate leftovers.
T;Easy Brickle Pie
I;1 3-ounce package cream cheese, softened
I;2 tablespoons sugar
I;1/2 cup milk
I;1 6-ounce package Bits of Brickle (Heath bits), divided
I;1 8-ounce container non-dairy whipped topping
I;1 9-inch graham cracker pie crust
D;In a deep bowl, using mixer combine cream cheese, sugar and milk. Add 3/4 cup
D;Bits of Brickle;
D;fold in whipped topping. Spoon into pie crust. Sprinkle remaining bits over
D;filling.
D;Freeze about 4 hours before serving.
T;Pecan Stuffed Pork Chops
D;Recipe by: The National Pecan Marketing Council, Inc.
D;(By Permission of the authors.)
D;Serves: 6
I;6 each pork loin chops 1 1/4 inch thick
I;3/4 cup celery finely chopped
I;2 tablespoons butter * see note
I;1/4 cup water
I;1 cup graham cracker crumbs crushed
I;1 cup pecans coarsely chopped
I;1/2 cup dry bread crumbs
I;1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
I;1/8 teaspoon salt
I;2 tablespoons fat ** see note
I;salt to taste
I;pepper to taste
I;2 tablespoons flour
I;1/2 cup water
D;Make a pocket in each chop by cutting into the chop with a small
D;sharp knife on rib side parallel to the surface of the chop. Be careful
D;not to cut through the opposite side. Cook celery in butter or margarine
D;in frying-pan 3 minutes. Stir in water. Combine graham cracker crumbs,
D;3/4 cup pecans, bread cubes, allspice and salt; stir into celery. Fill
D;pocket in each chop with an equal amount of stuffing. Lightly brown chops
D;in cooking fat in frying pan. Season chops on both sides with salt and
D;pepper. Place in 11-3/4x7-1/4x1-3/4-inch glass baking dish; cover tightly
D;with foil. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) 45 minutes. Remove foil
D;and continue baking 15 minutes or until done. To prepare gravy, combine
D;flour with 1/2 cup water, stir into cooking liquid in small saucepan and
D;cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Add reserved 1/4 cup pecans
D;and continue cooking 3 minutes. Serve gravy with stuffed pork chops. Makes
D;6 servings.
D;Notes:
D;* You may substitute margarine for butter.
D;** Use cooking fat.
T;Tomato Aspic
I;1 c. unsweetened tomato juice
I;dash of salt
I;dash of celery salt
I;1 t. chopped onion
I;1 whole clove
I;small piece bay leaf
I;1 t. vinegar
I;1 env. (7 grams) Lemon D-Zerta
D;Combine tomato juice and all seasonings in saucepan. Cover and bring to
D;a boil. Remove from heat and pour over D-Zerta, stirring until D-Zerta
D;is dissolved. Cover and let stand 5 min. Strain. Divide evenly into
D;molds or rings. Chill until form. Unmold.
D;Makes 2 servings, each about 1/2 c. or 38 calories.
T;Barbecued Beef N Bean Burgers
I;1 15 ounce can small while or
I;red beans drained
I;3 green onions including tops
I;chopped
I;2 stalks celery finely chopped
I;1/2 pound extra lean ground beef
I;crumbled into small pieces
I;1 8 ounce can tomato sauce
I;1/4 teaspoon liquid smoke
I;1 tablespoon honey
I;1/4 teaspoon grated lemon peel
I;5-6 hamburger buns
D;Spoon drained beans into a 3 1/2 quart slow cooker. Add
D;green onions, celery, ground beef, tomato sauce, liquid
D;smoke, honey and lemon peel. Stir until thoroughly
D;combined. Cover and cook on LOW about 4 hours or until
D;vegetables are tender. Preheat broiler. Split buns and
D;place, cut sides up, on a baking sheet. Toast under
D;broiler until lightly browned,a bout 5 minutes. Serve bean
D;mixture on toasted buns. Makes 5-6 servings.
D;Recipe from Healthy Crockery Cookery by Mable Hoffman
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Crescent Bacon N Olive Cheesies
I;2 slices bacon fried, drained and
I;crumbled
I;2 slices Old English Cheese finely
I;diced
I;1/4 cup finely chopped olives
I;2 tablespoons butter or margarine
I;softened
I;1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
I;1/4 teaspoon paprika
I;1 8 ounce can Pillsbury Refrigerated
I;Quick Crescent or Italian Flavor
I;Dinner Rolls
I;2 tablespoons sesame seed
D;Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Combine the firs six
D;ingredients. Remove crescents from can in rolled sections.
D;Do not unroll. Coat each section with sesame seeds. Slice
D;each section into eight slices. Place on ungreased cookie
D;sheet. Make depression, thump print, in center of each
D;slice. Top each with rounded teaspoonfull cheese mixture.
D;Bake 10 to 12 minutes until golden brown. Serve immediately
D;and refrigerate any lefterovers. Makes 16 snacks.
D;NOTE: 1/4 cup shredded Cheddar Cheese may be used.
D;Recipe from Pillsbury
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Kathleen Edwards' Scrambled Egg Burritos From Woman's Day
D;Serves: 4
D;Time: 10 min
I;8 large eggs
I;1/2 tsp salt
I;1/4 tsp pepper
I;1 tsp olive oil
I;1 large tomato, diced
I;8 flour tortillas, lowfat or regular, warmed
I;2 cups shredded romaine lettuce
I;1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese
I;4 strips bacon, cooked crisp, drained and crumbled
I;1/4 cup sliced scallions
D;Accompaniments:
D;Salsa and sour cream
D;1. Whisk eggs, salt and pepper in a medium bowl to blend. Heat oil in a
D;large nonstick skillet. Add eggs and scramble until cooked. Remove from
D;heat; fold in tomato.
D;2. Line tortillas with shredded lettuce. Top with egg mixture, cheese, bacon
D;and scallions. Roll up or fold to enclose filling. Serve with salsa and sour
D;cream.
D;Per serving: 607 cal, 29 g pro, 65 g car, 5 g fiber, 25 g fat (9 g saturated
D;fat), 445 mg chol, 1,241 mg sod
D;Sandy U.
T;Hamburger Gravy
I;1 pound lean ground beef
I;1/2 cup chopped onion
I;3 tablespoons Pillsbury Best
I;All Purpose or Unbleached
I;Flour
I;1 tablespoon beef flavor
I;instant bouillon
I;2 tablespoons steak sauce
I;2 cups milk
D;In large skillet, cook gound beef and onion over medium
D;high heat until beef is thoroughly cooked, stirring
D;frequently. Stir in flour, bouillon and steat sauce.
D;Gradually stir in milk. Cook and stir 4 to 6 minutes or
D;until mixture boils and thickens, stirring frequently. If
D;desired, serve over mashed potatoes or cooked rice. Makes
D;4 (3/4) cups servings.
D;Recipe from Pillsbury
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
D;(I use this over toast and add pepper to it too.)
T;Beef n Vegetable Stir Fry for Two
I;1 cup uncooked instant white
I;rice
I;1 cup water
I;1/4 pound extra lean ground beef
I;1 small onion sliced
I;1 1/2 cups Green Giant Select Frozen
I;100% Broccoli Florets thawed
I;1/2 red bell pepper cut into thin
I;bite sized strips
I;2 tablespoons purchased stir fry
I;sauce
I;2 tablespoons water
I;1/2 teaspoon grated gingerroot
D;Cook rice in 1 cup water as directed on package. Meanwhile
D;in medium nonstick skillet, cook ground beef and onion over
D;medium heat beef is thoroughly cooked, stirring frequently.
D;Drain. Add all remaining ingredients. Cover and cook 4-6
D;minutes or until vegetables are crisp tender, stirring
D;occasionally. Serve vegetable mixture over rice. Makes
D;2 servings.
D;Recipe from Pillsbury
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Marinated Mushrooms
D;These mushrooms are great served on a salad or as a side dish.
D;   approx. 15 Minutes. Cook Time: approx. 10 Minutes. Makes 8 to
D;10 servings .
I;1 cup red wine
I;1/2 cup red wine vinegar
I;1/3 cup olive oil
I;2 tablespoons brown sugar
I;2 cloves garlic, minced
I;1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
I;1/4 cup red bell pepper, diced
I;1 pound small fresh mushrooms,
I;   washed and trimmed
I;1/4 cup chopped green onions
I;1 teaspoon chopped oregano
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
I;Directions
D;1 In a saucepan over medium heat, combine the wine, vinegar, oil, sugar,
D;   garlic, bell pepper, red pepper flakes and mushrooms. Bring to
D;a boil, cover
D;   and set aside to cool.
D;Once cooled, stir in the green onions, oregano, salt and pepper. Serve
D;chilled or room temperature.
D;from: www.allrecipes.com
D;Mona
T;White Corn Chowder
D;Serve this hearty chowder on a chilly fall evening.
D;Serves 4-6
I;2 ounces Butter
I;1 medium Onion, diced
I;3 stalks Celery, diced
I;2 Carrots, peeled and diced
I;2 Tablespoons Flour
I;2 cups Chicken broth
I;4 cups Milk
I;2 medium Potatoes, diced and boiled
I;3 cups White corn
I;Salt and pepper to taste
D;Melt the butter in a heavy soup pot. Add the onion, celery,
D;and carrots. Cook over medium heat until just soft.
D;Sprinkle on the flour and cook for 3 minutes, stirring
D;frequently. Stir in the broth. Stir in the milk. Heat until
D;steaming. Add the cooked potatoes and corn. Cook for 45-55
D;minutes over low heat. Check the seasoning. Serve warm.
D;- Nick Sundberg
T;Japanese Dumplings (Gyoza)
T;Gyoza
D;Recipe By: Idlewild
I;1/2 head cabbage
I;2 large carrots
I;6 white mushrooms
I;3 shiitake mushrooms
I;6 stalks scallions
I;1/2 pound ground pork
I;1 tablespoon fresh ginger grated
I;black pepper
I;memmi
I;soy sauce
I;1 package gyoza skins (or 2 packs)
I;chili sesame oil (rayu)
D;Grate cabbage and carrots into shreds, set aside. Wash and slice
D;mushrooms, set aside. (I prefer to use dried shiitake, which must be
D;soaked in warm water for 30 min. prior to use. Discard stems of shiitake,
D;and use the mushroom soaking water for soup or whatever.) Chop the
D;scallions coarsely. Crumble pork and fry it, drain the excess oil.
D;Remove pork from the pan, stir fry the cabbage, carrots, mushrooms and
D;ginger in the traces of pork oil left in the pan. Add the pork and
D;scallions, toss until scallions are tender. Add black pepper, memmi, and
D;soy sauce to taste. (I use more memmi than soy sauce, but you may not
D;find the sweetness of memmi to your liking.)
D;Gyoza skin, incidentally, is different from wonton skins. Wonton skins
D;are thinner and do not take abuse well. Anyway, take one gyoza skin and
D;lay it in the palm of your hand. Add ~1 Tbsp. of filling, dip a finger in
D;water and wet the entire edge of the skin. Close the dumpling securely,
D;crimping the edge with your fingers. Set finished dumpling in a lightly
D;oiled non-stick frying pan. Work quickly - it helps to have helpers at
D;this point. Lay dumplings closely together in the pan but do not let them
D;touch; otherwise, they will be forever bonded during the cooking process.
D;Once the pan is full, set it over medium heat for a few minutes - check
D;the bottoms frequently - they should be nicely browned on the bottom. Now
D;add water until the gyozas are ~1/3 immersed (watch out, the pan will
D;sizzle), Cover loosely (I use a lid that is a bit smaller than the pan
D;diameter) and let steam until the water has evaporated. Gently pry the
D;dumplings off of the pan and serve "bottoms up." Make a dipping sauce of
D;soy sauce and rayu, serve with lots of hot fluffy rice.
D;You can also use this filling for egg rolls - simply wrap in egg roll
D;wrappers and deep fry until the skins are golden and crispy. Drain well
D;and eat while hot. You can adjust the contents (shrimp instead of pork,
D;add broccoli, decrease the ginger, etc.) as you like - this is a very
D;flexible recipe.
D;Sandy U.
T;Triple-Lemon Muffins
I;2 cups all-purpose flour
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;1 teaspoon baking powder
I;1/2 teaspoon baking soda
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;3 tablespoons margarine, melted
I;1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
I;1/4 cup fresh lemon juice, divided
I;2 large eggs
I;1 8-ounce carton lemon low-fat yogurt
I;Cooking spray
I;1-1/2 tablespoons sugar
D;Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl;
D;make well in center. Combine margarine, lemon rind, 2 tablespoons lemon
D;juice, eggs and yogurt; stir well with whisk. Add to flour mixture, stirring
D;just until moist. Spoon batter into each of 12 muffin cups coated with
D;cooking spray. Bake at 400 degrees for 20 minutes or until golden. Combine 2
D;tablespoons lemon juice and 1-1/2 tablespoons sugar in small saucepan; bring
D;to a boil. Cook 2 minutes or until slightly thick. Brush muffins with lemon
D;glaze; remove from pans. Makes 1 dozen.
T;Sweet Potato Stuffed Squash
I;2 medium acorn squash of about
I;1 1/4 pounds each
I;2 cups hot water
I;1 12 ounce package Mrs Pauls
I;frozen candied sweet potatoes
I;1/4 cup butter or margarine melted
I;generous dash ground cinnamon
I;chopped pecans walnuts or sliced
I;almonds optional
D;Scrub squash. Cut in half lengthwise; remove seeds and
D;stringy fibers. Arrange squash halves, cut side down, in
D;13 by 9 inch baking dish. Pour hot water into dish with
D;squash. Bake at 375 degrees for 30 minutes; turn squash
D;cut side up. Divide sweet potatoes among squash cavities.
D;In small bowl, combine candied sauce mix, butter, cinnamon
D;and nutmeg. Divide butter mixture among sweet potatoes.
D;Sprinkle with nuts, if desired. Cover with foil; bake 30
D;to 35 minutes or until squash and sweet potatoes are fork
D;tender. Makes 4 servings.
D;Recipe from Campbell's
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Lasagna The Easy Way
I;1 8 ounce package lasagna noodles
I;1 teaspoon olive oil
I;1 15 1/2 ounce can or jar spaghetti sauce with meat
I;pinch of oregano
I;1 cup cream style cottage cheese small curd
I;1 6 ounce package sliced mozzarella cheese
D;Cook the lasagna noodles according to the package directions in boiling
D;salted water to which you have added 1 teaspoon olive oil. Pour gently in to
D;a colander so as not to break the pieces. Stir the oregano in to the
D;spaghetti sauce. In to a greased baking dish 10 by 6 by 1 1/2 inches pour a
D;little of the spaghetti sauce. Alternate layers of the lasagna noodles,
D;cottage cheese, mozzarella and sauce. Using sauce for the top layer. Bake in
D;a preheated 375 degree oven for about 30 minutes. Let cool 8 or 10 minutes
D;before cutting in to squares and serving.
D;Serves 4 to 6
D;Source The Beany Malone Cookbook
D;Denise
D;Pasta
T;Beef and Spinach Enchiladas
I;1 pound lean ground beef
I;2 garlic cloves minced
I;1 1/2 cups Green Giant Frozen
I;Cut Leaf Spinach
I;4 ounces cream cheese cut
I;into cubes
I;1/2 teaspoon cumin
I;1 4.5 ounce can Old El Paso
I;Chopped Green Chiles
I;8 ounces shredded Monterey
I;Jack Cheese
I;8 8 inch flour tortillas
I;1 8 ounce can tomato sauce
I;1 cup Old El Paso Salsa
I;2 tablespoons chopped fresh
I;cilantro if desired
D;Heat oven to 350 degrees. Spray 13 x 9 inch or 3 quart
D;glass baking dish with nonstick cooking spray. In large
D;skillet, cook ground beef and garlic over medium high
D;heat until thoroughly cooked, stirring frequently. Drain.
D;Add spinach, cook 3-5 minutes or until spinach is thawed,
D;stirring frequently. Reduce heat to medium; stir in cream
D;cheese, cumin, chilies and 1 1/2 cups of the cheese until
D;combined. Spoon about 1/3 cup of beef mixture down center
D;of each tortilla. Roll up; place seam side down in sprayed
D;baking dish. In medium bowl, combine tomato sauce and
D;salsa; mix well. Spoon over tortillas; sprinkle with
D;remaining 1/2 cup cheese. Bake at 350 degrees for 20 to
D;25 minutes or until thoroughly heated. Sprinkle with
D;cilantro. Makes 4 servings.
D;Recipe from Pillsbury
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Roasted Onion and Garlic Mashed Potatoes
D;Mashed potatoes, the ultimate comfort food, are even more yummy when
D;flavored with roasted onions and garlic.
D;Prep Time 10 minutes
D;Cooking Time 1 1/4 hours
D;Serves 12
I;Ingredients
I;2 cups white onions, diced 1/4 inch
I;1/4 cup garlic, coarsely chopped
I;1 tablespoon olive oil
I;8 cups Idaho potatoes, peeled, cut in half
I;8 cups water
I;6 tablespoon butter
I;1/2 cup sour cream
I;2 teaspoons salt
I;1/2 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
D;Directions
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Toss the first three ingredients together to
D;combine. Place in ovenproof baking dish; cover tightly with foil. Bake for
D;45 minutes until tender. Remove from oven and set aside. Place potatoes and
D;water in large saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce to medium
D;heat and cook for 20-30 minutes until tender. Drain well. Do not let cool.
D;Place potatoes, roasted onions and seasonings in stainless bowl or mixer
D;bowl. Mash or whip until just fluffy and combined. Do not over beat. Keep
D;warm until serving.
D;Sandy U.
T;Yogurt Deviled Eggs
I;6 hard-cooked eggs
I;1/4 cup plain low-fat yogurt
I;1 teaspoon instant minced onion
I;1 teaspoon parsley flakes or freeze-dried chives
I;1 teaspoon lemon juice or dry vermouth
I;3/4 teaspoon prepared mustard
I;1/4 teaspoon salt, optional
I;1/4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
I;1/8 teaspoon pepper
I;Dash paprika
D;Cut eggs in half lengthwise. Remove yolks and set whites aside. In small
D;bowl, mash yolks with fork. Stir in yogurt, onion, parsley, juice, mustard,
D;salt, if desired, Worcestershire, pepper and paprika until well blended. With
D;spoon or pastry bag, refill whites using about 1 tablespoon yolk mixture for
D;each egg half.
D;OR, place yolks in food-storage bag. Add remaining ingredients, except egg
D;white halves, to the bag. Close bag. Knead the bag until everything is well
D;blended & smooth. Push the contents toward the corner. Snip about ½-inch off
D;the corner of the bag. Squeezing the bag gently, fill the reserved whites
D;with the yolk mixture. Chill to blend flavors.
D;Lemon Pineapple Pie
D;Drain 1 20-ounce can pineapple; fold in 1 8-ounce carton whipped topping, 2
D;tablespoons lemon juice, 1 tablespoon grated lemon rind, 1 tablespoon
D;pineapple juice and 1/2 cup chopped nuts. Mix well. Pour into graham cracker
D;crust; place in freezer for 6 hours or overnight.
D;Source unknown
T;Wild Rice Soup
I;1 lb ground beef
I;1/2 tsp salt
I;1 Tbsp seasoning salt or Italian spices
D;Brown this mixture in a heavy 4 qt kettle .
D;crumble beef as it cooks .
D;Add
I;1 c wild rice
I;1 c water
I;3 drops tobacco sauce
I;2 tsp beef bouillon granules
I;1/2 tsp pepper
I;4 ribs celery sliced
I;2 large onions chopped
D;Simmer 30 mins . Stir in 3 cans cream of mushroom soup , 2 cans water .
D;Cover and simmer another 30 mins .
T;Ham and Cheese Roll-ups
I;1 pkg. Ham, cooked and thinly sliced
I;1/4 C. Cheddar Cheese, shredded
I;3 oz. Cream Cheese
I;1/4 C. Butter or margarine
D;Cream cheddar, cream cheese and butter.
D;Spread thin layer on ham slices, roll, chill for
D;1 hour: Slice into 1/2 inch pieces.
T;Hobo Supper for One
D;Recipe By : HomeCooking Magazine, September 2000, Page 59
D;Serving Size : 1 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Pork & Ham
I;1 potato -- sliced
I;2 carrots -- sliced
I;1 small onion -- sliced
I;1 pork chop
I;salt and pepper
D;Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place potato on foil. Layer carrots and onion over
D;top. Place pork chop on top. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Close up foil
D;tightly. Bake for 1 1/4 hours, or until done. Serves 1.
D;Variation: You may substitute a chopped beef patty for pork chop.
D;- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
D;NOTES : Mastercook Formatted by Doug ({bulldog9@...})
D;Submitted to HomeCooking by Lucy Dowd
T;Speedy Black Bean Soup
D;Soup
I;1 teaspoon olive oil
I;1 small onion minced
I;2 15 ounce cans black beans
I;with 1 can drained
I;1 1/2 cups low fat low dosium
I;chicken broth
I;1/2 cup dry red wine
I;fresh ground pepper to taste
I;1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
I;Garnish
I;6 tablespoons low fat sour cream
I;cilantro or parsley sprigs
D;In a stockpot over medium high heat, heat the oil. Add
D;the onion and saute for 5 minutes. Add the drained can
D;of beans and chicken broth. simmer for 5 minutes. Puree
D;the other can of beans with the bean liquid in a blender
D;or food processor. Add to the soup. Add the red wine,
D;ground pepper and cayenne pepper and simmer for 10 minutes.
D;Garnish with sour cream and parsley or cilantro sprigs.
D;Makes 6 servings of 1 cup size.
D;Very lean meat exchange 1; starch exchange 1 1/2;
D;calories 168; total fat 3 g; saturaged fat 1 g;
D;Calories from fat 27; cholesterol 5 mg; sodium
D;39 mg; total carbohydrate 26 g; dietary fiber 8 g;
D;sugars 4 g; protein 10 g.
D;Recipe from Diabetic Meals in 30 Minutes or Less
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Smoky Apple Butter Ribs
I;3 pounds pork boneless country
I;style ribs
I;3/4 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 teaspoon pepper
I;1 medium onion sliced
I;1/2 cup Apple Butter
I;2 tablespoons packed brown sugar
I;1 tablespoon liquid smoke
I;2 cloves garlic finely chopped
D;Sprinkle ribs with salt and pepper. Place in 3 1/2 to
D;4 quart slow cooker. Cover with onion slices. Mix
D;remaining ingredients; pour over ribs and onion. Cover
D;and cook on LOW HEAT setting 8-10 hours. Remove ribs to
D;warm platter; keep warm. Strain juices. Pour juices from
D;slow cooker into 1 quart saucepan. Heat to boiling over
D;medium high heat; reduce heat to medium. Cook about 5
D;minutes or until sauce has slightly thickened. Serve sauce
D;with ribs. Makes 4 servings.
D;Recipe from Betty Crockers New Slow Cooker Meals
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Chick peas in spanish sauce
D;Yield: 2 servings
I;227 1/2 g Chick peas (dried) or 1/2 Garlic clove 400 g Chick peas (canned)
I;1 tb Olive oil
I;1/2 Green pepper 1/2 tb Chopped parsley 1/2 Red pepper 1/2 ts Sea salt
I;1/2 Green chilli 227 1/2 g Tomatoes 1/2 Onion
D;Chop the peppers onions garlic and tomatoes. Lightly fry the peppers onion and
D;garlic in the olive oil for a few minutes. Add the parsley tomatoes and
D;salt and cook on a low heat for about half an hour stirring occasionally until
D;the tomatoes are pulped. Combine this with the cooked chick peas and serve
D;either with rice or potatoes. Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
D;The soul would have no rainbow
D;if the eyes had no tears.
D;-- Native American Proverb
T;Tex-Mex Waffles
D;Peppers and jalapeno-flavored jelly add Mexican flavor to these
D;savory waffles.
I;1/2 cup chopped red sweet pepper
I;1/2 cup chopped green sweet pepper
I;1/2 cup chopped green onion
I;1 tablespoon cooking oil
I;1 cup all-purpose flour
I;1 cup yellow cornmeal
I;1 tablespoon baking powder
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;3 eggs
I;1 8-ounce carton plain yogurt
I;1/2 cup milk
I;1/3 cup butter, melted
I;Jalapeno pepper jelly, melted
I;Shredded cheddar cheese (optional)
D;1. In a medium saucepan cook red pepper, green pepper, and green onion
D;in hot oil over medium heat about 5 minutes or until crisp-tender,
D;stirring frequently; set aside.
D;2. In a large mixing bowl stir together flour, cornmeal, baking powder,
D;and salt. In another bowl beat eggs slightly with a whisk or fork. Beat
D;in yogurt, milk, and melted butter. Add egg mixture to flour mixture all
D;at once. Stir just until combined but still slightly lumpy. Gently fold
D;in pepper mixture.
D;3. Pour 1 to 1-1/4 cups of batter onto grids of a preheated, lightly
D;greased waffle baker. Close lid quickly; do not open during baking. Bake
D;according to manufacturer's directions. When waffle is done, use a fork
D;to lift it off the grid. Keep warm. Repeat with remaining batter. (If
D;the cornmeal batter thickens on standing, you may need to thin it with a
D;little milk.) To serve, top with melted jalapeno jelly and shredded
D;cheddar cheese, if desired. Makes 4 (8-inch) waffles (8 servings).
D;Nutrition facts per serving: 254 calories, 12 g total fat, 3 g saturated
D;fat, 82 mg cholesterol, 344 mg sodium, 29 g carbohydrate, 1 g fiber,
D;7 g protein, 22% vitamin A, 38% vitamin C, 17% calcium, 13% iron.
T;Royal Granola
I;2 cups shredded coconut
I;7 cups rolled oats
I;1 cup sesame seeds
I;1 cup wheat germ
I;1 cup sun flower seeds
I;1 cup cashews
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon
I;1/4 cup carob powder
I;1 cup sliced dates
I;4 cups honey
I;1 tablespoon vanilla
I;1 cup oil
I;1 cup raisins
D;Oil a shallow baking pan. In a large bowl combine the dry ingredients and
D;dry fruit except for the raisins. In a small bowl combine the honey, vanilla
D;and oil. Pour over the dry mixture. Spread no more than 1/2 inch thick in
D;prepared pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 20 minutes, stirring after 10 minutes.
D;Add the raisins and cool.
D;Makes about 20 cups
D;Source The American Country Inn And Bed Breakfast Cookbook
D;Denise
T;Honey Roasted Ham Biscuits
I;1 10 ounce can refrigerated
I;buttermilk biscuits
I;2 cups diced cure ham
I;1/2 cup honey mustard
I;1/4 cup finely chopped honey
I;roasted peanuts divided
D;Heat oven to 400 degrees. Seperate biscuits. Place in
D;muffin pans, pressing gently into bottom and up sides of
D;pan. In bowl, combine ham, honey mustard and 2 tablespoons
D;peanuts. Spoon ham mixture evenly into biscuits cups.
D;Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons peanuts. Bake 15-17
D;minutes. Makes 10 servings.
D;Recipe from Favorite Brand Name Recipes
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Pumpkin Butterscotch Fudge Bars
I;Cookie Base:
I;1 cup all-purpose flour
I;1 cup quick or old-fashioned oats
I;3/4 cup packed brown sugar
I;1/2 cup chopped walnuts
I;1/2 cup flaked coconut
I;1/2 teaspoon baking soda
I;3/4 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice
I;3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter or margarine, melted
I;Fudge:
I;2 tablespoons butter or margarine
I;2/3 cup Evaporated Milk
I;3/4 cup granulated sugar
I;1/2 cup 100% Pure Pumpkin
I;1 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;2 cups (4 ounces) miniature marshmallows
I;1 2/3 cups (11-ounce package) Butterscotch
I;Flavored Morsels
I;3/4 cup chopped walnuts, divided
I;1 teaspoon vanilla extract
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. LINE 15 x 10-inch jelly-roll
D;pan with foil.
D;For Cookie Base:
D;Combine flour, oats, brown sugar, nuts,
D;coconut, baking soda and pumpkin pie spice in medium
D;bowl; mix well. Stir in butter; mix well. Press into prepared
D;jelly-roll pan. Bake for 13 to 15 minutes or until slightly
D;brown. Cool in pan on wire rack.
D;For Fudge:
D;Combine butter, evaporated milk, sugar,
D;pumpkin, pumpkin pie spice and salt in medium, heavy-duty
D;saucepan. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, over medium
D;heat. Boil, stirring constantly, for 8 to 10 minutes. Remove
D;from heat. Stir in marshmallows, morsels, 1/2 cup nuts and
D;vanilla extract. Stir vigorously for 1 minute or until
D;marshmallows are melted. Pour over cookie base;
D;sprinkle with remaining nuts.
D;Refrigerate until firm before cutting into bars.
D;Yields about 4.
T;Caramelized Turnips from Foodfit.com
D;Recipe by: Chez Panisse Vegetables
D;This recipe serves 4
D;Preparation time : 10 minutes
D;Cooking time : 30 minutes
I;Ingredients
I;8 small turnips
I;2 tablespoons olive oil
I;salt to taste
I;freshly ground black pepper
D;Cooking Instructions
D;1. Preheat oven to 425°F.
D;2. Turnips that are sufficiently young and tender need only be rinsed and
D;dried before cooking; older purple-top turnips will need to be peeled. Cut
D;the turnips into halves, or quarters if they are small. Big ones should be
D;cut in half lengthwise and the halves sliced into wedges.
D;3. Toss the turnips in a bowl with a generous splash of olive oil and salt
D;and pepper. Spread them out in an even layer on a baking sheet and roast
D;them for about 10 minutes, then toss them once (if tossed more frequently,
D;they tend to break apart as they become tender).
D;4. Roast for 5 minutes more and check for doneness - depending on the water
D;content of the turnips, they can take from 15 to 30 minutes. The turnips are
D;done when they are fork tender and nicely caramelized.
D;Nutrition Facts
D;Serving Size 2 turnips
D;Amount Per Serving
D;Calories 159
D;Total Fat 7 g
D;Saturated Fat 1 g
D;Protein 3 g
D;Total Carbohydrate 23 g
D;Dietary Fiber 7 g
D;Sodium 392 mg
D;Percent Calories from Fat 38%
D;Percent Calories from Protein 8%
D;Percent Calories from Carbohydrate 54%
D;Sandy Ulmer
T;Carrots in beer
D;Yield: 4 servings
I;4 ea Carrots; large 1 tb Butter 1 c Dark beer; any brand 1/4 ts Salt
I;1 ts Sugar
D;Peel and slice carrots into long thin slices. Melt butter in medium-size
D;frypan; add beer and carrots. Cook slowly until tender stirring frequently. Stir
D;in salt and sugar. Cook for another 2 minutes and serve hot.
T;German french toast
D;Yield: 8 servings
I;2 c Milk 2 c Water 3 lg Eggs fresh 1 tb Lemon juice
I;1 tb Lemon rind grated 3 Links (8-oz) smoked 8 Slices french bread thick -
I;bratwurst sliced
I;1 c Bread crumbs 1/4 c Onion minced 2 lg Tart apples
D;peeled cored 8 ts Sugar/cinnamon mixture - and sliced Maple syrup Preheat oven
D;to 425 degrees. Whisk together milk egg yolks and lemon rind. Soak break
D;slices in egg mixture until saturated. Whisk egg whites until frothy. Dip soaked
D;bread in whites and then dredge in bread crumbs. Arrange on greased cookie
D;sheet and bake for 15 minutes. Remove turn over and return to oven for 10
D;minutes longer. While toast is baking place apple slices in small saucepan with
D;the 2 cups water and lemon juice. Bring to a boil and remove from heat. Saute
D;bratwurst and onions together until crispy brown. To serve sprinkle toast
D;with sugar/cinnamon mixture cover with cooked drained apple slices sauteed
D;bratwurst and onions. Serve with maple syrup. Makes 8 servings. Source:
D;Strawberry
D;Creek Inn Idyllwild (CA) Jim Goff (Innkeeper) Posted: Robert Bass Corona CA
T;CHRISTMAS BUTTER COOKIES
I;2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1 1/4 cups butter, softened
I;1 cup icing sugar
I;2 teaspoons vanilla
D;Stir together flour and salt. Cream butter; beat in
D;sugar and vanilla. Add dry ingredients to creamed
D;mixture, part at a time. Choose one variation (these
D;follow). Bake on ungreased cookie sheets in 325
D;degree
D;F oven according to individual directions.
D;Makes about 6 dozen.
D;Variations~~~
D;ALMOND CRESCENTS:
D;Add 1 cup ground almonds to dough. Form into 1-inch
D;balls; shape into crescents. Bake 12 to 15 minutes.
D;Sprinkle with icing sugar while still warm.
D;CHOCOLATE TIPPED LOGS:
D;Shape dough into 1-inch balls; roll into 2 inch long
D;cylinders. Bake 12 to 15 minutes. Cool. Dip each
D;cookie into melted chocolate, then finely-chopped
D;nuts.
D;RASPBERRY STRIPS:
D;Divide dough into 6 parts; shape each into a rope
D;about
D;1/2 inch in diameter. Place 3 at a time on cookie
D;sheets. Press a groove down center of each rope;
D;push
D;up sides to make a deeper trench. Bake 20 minutes;
D;cool 10 minutes on sheet, remove. Fill centers with
D;raspberry jam. Slice to serve.
D;Source: recipe card in mail
D;Cookie Swap
D;Pat in WA
D;Some Diabetic Recipes
T;Title: Phony Whipped Cream
D;Keywords: cream, whipped, mock, diabetic
D;Servings: 24
I;1 t Granulated gelatin
I;1 T Cold water
I;2 1/2 T Boiling water
I;1/2 c Iced water
I;1/2 c Instant nonfat dry milk
I;1/2 t Vanilla
I;2 T Vegetable oil
I;3 T Sugar = artifical sweetener
D;Chill a small mixing bowl and beaters. Meanwhile, soften gelatin in cold
D;water, then disolve it over boiling water. Allow to cool to tepid. Placed iced
D;water and nonfat dry milk in chilled bowl and beat until stiff peaks form.
D;Continue beating, adding remaining ingredients and gelatin, until blended. Place
D;bowl in freezer for 15 minutes, then transfer to refrigerator. Occasionally stir
D;gently to keep mixture smooth and well blended.
D;Note Any artifical sweetener liquid or powdered may be used as long as it is
D;equivalent to 3 Tablespoons of sugar.
D;1 serving = 2 Tablespoons 2 Tablespoons = free exchange.
D;CHO 1, PRO 1, FAT 1, Cal 15, Na 7
D;Posted by PHILLIP BOWER
T;Title: Whole Wheat Pizza
D;Keywords: Diabetic, Vegetables, Vegetarian, Main dish
D;Yield: 8 servings
I;1 c Warm Water (110 to 115 -degrees)
I;1 pk (or 1 tablespoon) Active Dry -Yeast -or-
I;1 Ck Yeast
I;1 T Honey
I;1 c Whole Wheat Flour
I;1/2 ts Salt
I;1 T Vegetable Oil
I;4 oz Cheddar Cheese, grated
I;1/2 ts Black Pepper, ground
I;1/2 ts Caraway Seeds
I;1/4 ts Garlic Powder
I;1 1/4 To 1-1/2 c Whole Wheat Flour
I;1/2 c Tomato Sauce -or- Pizza -Sauce
I;1/2 To 1 tb Dried Oregano
I;1 c Raw Broccoli Pieces
I;1 c Raw Mushroom Slices
I;8 oz Part Skim Mozzarella Cheese, -shredded
D;Combine the water, yeast, honey and the 1 cup of whole wheat flour in a large
D;bowl. Beat 100 times until mixture is smooth.
D;Let rise in a warm place for 15 minutes. Add the salt, oil, Cheddar cheese, 
D;pepper, caraway seeds, garlic powder and 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 ups whole wheat flour.
D;Mix well and let the dough rest for 5 minutes.
D;Pat out the dough onto a baking sheet for 1 large pizza or divide
D;the dough in half and make two medium-size pizzas.
D;Top with the pizza sauce, oregano, vegetables and mozzarella. Bake
D;in a 400 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
D;Serves 8
D;One Serving = Calories: 305 Carbohydrates: 33 Protein: 18 Fat: 12
D;Sodium: 430 Potassium: 378 Cholesterol: 31
D;Exchange Value: 2 Medium-Fat Meat Exchanges + 2 Bread Exchanges + 1 Vegetable
D;Exchange
D;Source: Holiday Cookbook, American Diabetes Association, ISBN
D;0-13-024894-0, by Betty Wedman, M.S.,R.D.
D;1..
D;[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
T;Maple Praline Cheesecake from Sargento.com
D;Preparation Time: 20 minutes
D;Baking Time: 1 hour
D;Refrigeration Time: 4 hours
D;Serves: 8
D;This recipe is a good source of Calcium
I;Crust:
I;1-1/2 cups finely chopped toasted pecans
I;2 Tbsp. sugar
I;3 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted
I;Filling:
I;4 cups (30 oz.) Sargento® Light Ricotta Cheese
I;3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
I;1/2 cup half-and-half
I;1/4 cup all-purpose flour
I;2 Tbsp. maple syrup
I;1 tsp. vanilla
I;1/4 tsp. salt
I;3 eggs
I;Toasted pecan halves (optional)
I;Whipped light cream (optional)
D;1. Lightly grease sides of 8 or 9-inch springform pan. Combine pecans,
D;sugar and butter; mix well. Press evenly over bottom of pan. Bake in
D;preheated 350°F oven 10 minutes.
D;2. Combine Ricotta cheese, brown sugar, half-and-half, flour, maple syrup,
D;vanilla and salt in large bowl of electric mixer; blend until smooth. Add
D;eggs, one at a time; blend until smooth. Pour over crust. Bake 1 hour or
D;until set. Cool in oven with door propped open 30 minutes.
D;3. Refrigerate 4 hours or longer before serving. Garnish with pecan halves
D;and whipped cream, if desired.
D;Sandy Ulmer
D;Sandy Ulmer
T;Grand Marnier Apricot Bread Pudding With Caramel Sauce
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 1 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories :
D;Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method
D;-------- ------------ --------------------------------
I;1 cup Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
I;1/4 cup water
I;5 cups whipping cream
I;6 large eggs
I;1 cup sugar
I;1 tablespoon vanilla extract
I;1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
I;8 croissants -- cubed (about 1 pound)
I;1 cup dried apricots -- diced
D;It's great with or without the Caramel Sauce (see recipe); if you're short on
D;time, substitute a purchased sauce. Simmer Grand Marnier and 1/4 cup water in
D;heavy medium saucepan 5 minutes. Cool mixture completely. Whisk Grand
D;Marnier-water mixture, cream, eggs, sugar, vanilla and nutmeg in large bowl to
D;blend. Place croissant pieces in 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish; add apricots
D;and toss to combine. Pour custard over croissant-apricot mixture, pressing down
D;gently with rubber spatula so that croissant and apricot pieces are evenly
D;covered. Let stand 20 minutes. Preheat oven to 350øF. Cover baking dish with
D;aluminum foil. Place dish in larger roasting pan. Add enough hot water to
D;roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of baking dish. Bake 1 hour. Remove
D;aluminum foil and continue baking until bread pudding is golden brown on top and
D;firm to touch, about 30 minutes longer. Carefully remove bread pudding from
D;oven and from water bath; cool slightly. Drizzle bread pudding with Caramel
D;Sauce, if desired, and serve warm. Makes 12 servings. Bon Appetit January 2000
D;- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
D;Per Serving (excluding unknown items): 7469 Calories; 563g Fat (66.8% calories
D;from fat); 99g Protein; 529g Carbohydrate; 24g Dietary Fiber; 3059mg
D;Cholesterol; 4189mg Sodium. Exchanges: 12 1/2 Grain(Starch); 4 1/2 Lean Meat; 5
D;1/2 Fruit; 3 1/2 Non-Fat Milk; 110 Fat; 13 1/2 Other Carbohydrates.
D;Nutr. Assoc. : 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T;HOT FUDGE SUNDAES from Quick Cooking Mag.
I;3/4 cup sugar
I;6 tablespoons baking cocoa
I;1 can (5 ounces) evaporated milk
I;1/3 cup butter or margarine
I;3/4 cup miniature marshmallows
I;1 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;Vanilla ice cream
I;Nuts and maraschino cherries, optional
D;In a saucepan, combine the sugar and cocoa; stir in milk. Add butter. Bring
D;to a boil over medium heat; cook and stir until sugar is dissolved. Add
D;marshmallows; cook until melted. Remove from the heat; stir in vanilla.
D;Serve over ice cream. Top with nuts and cherries if desired. Yield: 2 cups.
D;Sandy Ulmer
T;Tri Colour Pepper Sauté
D;By The Canadian Living Test Kitchen
I;1 tablespoon vegetable oil (15 mL)
I;2 shallots, thinly sliced
I;1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds, crushed (2 mL)
I;1 teaspoon seasoned rice vinegar (5 mL)
I;1 each sweet red, yellow and green pepper, cut in
I;strips
I;8 ounces green or yellow beans, trimmed (250 g)
I;2 cloves garlic, minced
I;1/4 cup vegetable stock (50 mL)
I;1/4 cup tomato juice (50 mL)
I;2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce (25 mL)
I;1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper (1 mL)
D;In nonstick skillet, heat oil over medium heat; cook
D;shallots and fennel seeds, stirring often, for 5
D;minutes or until very soft.
D;Add vinegar; cook, stirring, for 30 seconds. Add red,
D;yellow and green peppers; cook for 5
D;minutes over medium-high heat or until tender-crisp and
D;lightly browned.
D;Stir in green beans, garlic, stock, tomato juice,
D;Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper; cover and
D;cook, stirring occasionally, for 7 minutes. Uncover and
D;boil for 1 minute or until liquid is
D;evaporated.
D;Yield: 6 to 8 servings
T;Galumpous
I;1 lb. ground beef
I;2 cloves of garlic, minced
I;1 onion, minced
I;2 T. olive oil
I;1 (8 oz.) can tomato sauce
I;1 (19 oz.) can tomatoes
I;1 1/2 t. salt
I;1/4 t. pepper
I;1 T. sugar
I;1 1/2 t. oregano
I;1 (8 oz.) pkg. macaroni
I;1/2 lb. mozzarella cheese, thinly sliced
I;1/2 c. grated Parmesan cheese
D;Brown beef, garlic and onion in olive oil. Stir in tomato sauce, tomatoes and
D;seasonings. Cover and simmer 20 min. Cook macaroni; drain. Arrange macaroni,
D;mozzarella cheese, Parmesan cheese and meat sauce in casserole. Bake at 375° for
D;25 min. Makes 6 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;Today, I will respect my body and my
D;health and stop compromising my integrity.
T;Blueberry Cheese Coffeecake
D;By The Canadian Living Test Kitchen
D;This sumptuous cake combines the best of creamy cheesecake and moist
D;coffee cake.
I;1/3 cup Butter, softened
I;2/3 cup Granulated sugar
I;2 Eggs
I;2 tsp Vanilla
I;1-1/2 cups All-purpose flour
I;1 tsp Baking powder
I;1/2 tsp Baking soda
I;1/4 tsp Salt
I;1/2 cup Sour cream
I;1-1/2 cups Fresh or frozen wild blueberries
I;CRUMB TOPPING:
I;1 cup All-purpose flour
I;1/4 cup Packed brown sugar
I;1/4 cup Granulated sugar
I;1/2 tsp Cinnamon
I;1/3 cup Butter, melted
I;CREAM CHEESE FILLING:
I;1 Pkg (8 oz/250 g) cream cheese, softened
I;1/4 cup Granulated sugar
I;1 Egg
I;1 tsp Finely grated lemon rind
D;Grease 9-inch (2.5 mL) springform pan; set aside.
D;CRUMB TOPPING: In small bowl, combine flour, brown and granulated sugars
D;and cinnamon. Drizzle with butter; toss until thoroughly moistened. Set
D;aside.
D;CHEESE FILLING: In bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until light and
D;fluffy, scraping down side of bowl occasionally. Beat in egg and lemon
D;rind just until smooth; set aside.
D;In large bowl, beat butter with sugar until well combined. Beat in eggs,
D;one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. In
D;separate bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda and
D;salt; stir into butter mixture alternately with sour cream, making three
D;additions of dry ingredients and two of sour cream. Spread in prepared
D;pan, mounding slightly. Sprinkle 1 cup of the blueberries over top.
D;Gently spread cream cheese filling over blueberries; sprinkle with
D;remaining blueberries. Sprinkle evenly with crumb topping.
D;Bake in centre of 350°F (180°C) oven for about 1-1/4 hours or until edge
D;is set and just beginning to come away from pan. Let cool in pan on rack
D;for 30 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.
D;VARIATION:
D;Raspberry cheese coffee cake: Substitute raspberries for blueberries. If
D;desired, bake in 10-inch Bundt pan for about 1 hour.
D;Makes 12 servings.
D;Per Serving: about 394 cal, 6g pro, 20 g total fat (12 g sat. fat), 48g
D;carb, 1g fibre, 108 mg chol, 307 mg sodium% RDI: 5% calcium, 12% iron,
D;22% vit. A, 3% vit. C , 17% folate.
T;Cjoclem a la King
I;1/2 cup margarine or butter
I;1 small green bell pepper
I;chopped
I;1 cup sliced mushrooms
I;1/2 cup all purpose flour
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1/4 teaspoon pepper
I;1 1/2 cups milk
I;1 1/4 cups chicken broth
I;2 cups cut up cooked chicken
I;or turkey
I;1 2 ounce jar diced pimientos
I;drained
I;12 toasted bread triangles or 3
I;cups hot cooked rice
D;Melt margarine in 3 quart saucepan over medium high heat.
D;Cook bell pepper and mushrooms in margarine, stirring
D;occasionally, until bell pepper is crisp-tender. Stir
D;in flour, salt and pepper. Cook over medium heat,
D;stirring constantly, until bubbly; remove from heat. Stir
D;in chicken and pimientos; cook until hot. Serve over
D;toasted bread trangles. Makes 6 servings.
D;Recipe from Betty Crockers 1-2-3 Dinners
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
D;Here's yet another one that I make.. :)
T;Vegetable Beef Soup
D;This is a recipe I have made many times. It's a very
D;hearty soup that my family loves.
D;I server it with corn bread, of course:)
I;4 med. Size potatoes (diced)
I;1 med. Onion (diced)
I;3 carrots (diced)
I;1 can whole kernel corn (drained)
I;1 can green beans (drained)
I;1 can stewed tomatoes or canned diced tomatoes
I;1 head of cabbage (cut into small wedges)
I;1 small can tomato sauce
I;1 lb. Hamburger meat (cooked)
I;Sometimes I add smoked sausage cut into rings.
I;A pinch of sweet basil
I;A pinch of Parsley
D;In large pot cook everything except for meat, green
D;beans and cabbage.
D;Once veggies are tender, add cooked meat, the green
D;beans and cabbage. Cook for another 30 mintues or so,
D;until cabbage is done.
D;*you may add any other kinds of canned vegetables you
D;prefer.
D;You can also cook this in the crock pot.
T;MACARONI AND CHEESE PUFF
I;1/2 cup uncooked small elbow
I;macaroni
I;1-1/2 cups mik
I;6 ounces sharp process American
I;cheese, shredded
I;(1-1/2 cups)
I;3 tablespoons butter or margarine
I;3 beaten egg yolks
I;1 cup soft bread crumbs
I;1/4 cup chopped canned pimiento
I;1 tablespoon snipped parsley
I;1 tablespoon grated onion
I;3 egg whites
I;1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
D;Cook macaroni according to package directions; drain.
D;Combine milk, cheese, and butter; cook and stir over
D;low heat until cheese is melted. Stir small amount of
D;hot mixture into egg yolks; return to remaining hot
D;mixture in pan; blend thoroughly. Add cooked
D;macaroni, crumbs, pimiento, parsley, and onion.
D;Beat egg whites and cream of tartar until stiff but
D;not dry. Gently fold into macaroni mixture. Pour
D;into ungreased 1-1/2 quart souffle dish. Bake in slow
D;oven (325F) for 1 hour or until set. Serve
D;immediately.
D;Serves 6
D;Better Homes and Gardens (1970)
T;Apple Rolls
D;Categories: Breads, Rolls, Quick
D;Yield: 12 Rolls
I;-Household Searchlight
I;2 c Flour
I;4 ts Baking powder
I;3/4 c Milk
I;4 c Pared, sliced apples
I;1/4 c Brown sugar
I;1/2 ts Salt
I;1/4 c Shortening
I;2 tb Melted butter or butter
I;-substitute
I;1 ts Cinnamon
I;1 c Brown sugar
D;Sift flour, measure, and sift with baking powder and salt. Cut in
D;shortening with 2 spatulas. Add milk, Mix quickly and lightly. Turn
D;onto
D;lightly floured board. Roll in oblong sheet 1/4 inch thick. Brush with
D;melted butter. Cover with apples. Sprinkle with 1cup sugar and the
D;cinnamon which have been mixed. Roll like a jelly roll. Cut in slices
D;1 1/2
D;inches thick. Sprinkle 1/4cup brown sugar over bottom of well-oiled
D;pan.
D;Place rolls, cut down, in pan. Bake in hot oven (425 F) about 40
D;minutes.
T;Kreplach
I;3 eggs
I;3 c. flour, sifted
I;salt and pepper to taste
I;2/3 c. water
I;1 1/2 lbs. ground beef
I;2 T. diced onion
D;Add 2 beaten eggs to mixture of flour and 1/2 t. salt; mix gently and gradually
D;add water. Knead for several min. Separate dough into 3 parts; knead again.
D;Place in tightly covered bowl; let stand in warm place. Cook meat; sauté onion.
D;Combine with remaining ingredients. Roll dough to 1/2" squares. Place small
D;amount of filling in center of each square; fold into triangle. Pinch ends
D;together; cook in salted boiling water for 15 min. Place in colander; rinse
D;gently with cold water. Cool. Serve in broth or fry until slightly crisp. Makes
D;8 to 8 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;As I grow in self-acceptance, I am
D;learning to accept other people
D;as they are.
T;Idaho Chowder
I;1 lb. hamburger
I;1 No. 2 1/2 can tomatoes
I;1 buffet can tomato sauce (sm.)
I;1 green pepper, chopped
I;1 onion, chopped
I;1 (10 oz.) pkg. frozen peas
I;1 t. salt
I;1/4 t. pepper
I;1 c. egg noodles, crushed
D;Brown meat in electric skillet; add remaining ingredients except noodles. Bring
D;to a boil; add noodles. Stir well. Cover and reduce heat. Cook for 30 min.
D;without removing lid. Stir and serve. Serve with grated cheese on top, if
D;desired.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;As I grow in self-acceptance, I am
D;learning to accept other people
D;as they are.
T;COMPANY CASSEROLE cp
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 4 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Chicken & Poultry Casseroles
D;Main Dishes
I;1 1/4 c Raw converted rice
I;1/2 c Butter or margarine -- melted
I;2 1/2 c Chicken broth (to 3 cups)
I;3 c Cut-up, cooked chicken
I;-up to 4 cups
I;2 4-oz cans sliced mushrooms
I;-drained
I;6 tb Soy sauce
I;8 Green onions -- chopped
I;2/3 c Slivered almonds
D;Mix rice with melted butter or margarine in crockpot.
D;Stir to coat rice thoroughly. Add all remaining
D;ingredients, except slivered almonds and 2 tablespoons
D;green onions. Stir well. Sprinkled reserved almonds
D;and green onions over top. Cover and cook on Low 7 to
D;9 hours, High 3 to 4 hours.
T;Irene's Dirty Rice Casserole
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 1 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Cajun/Creole Casseroles
D;Ground Beef Pork & Ham
I;1 1/2 Pounds Ground Beef
I;1 1/2 Pounds Pork Sausage -- mild
I;1 Onion -- chopped
I;1/2 Bell Pepper -- chopped
I;1 Rib Celery -- chopped
I;1 Can Cream Of Mushroom Soup
I;1 Can Cream Of Celery Soup
I;1 Can Cream Of Chicken Soup
I;1 1/2 Cups Rice -- uncooked
D;Saute ground beef, pork sausage, and then pour off drippings. Saute
D;onion, bell pepper and celery. Add all cream of mushroom soup, celery
D;soup, chicken soup and rice. Pour into greased 13 x 9 x 2 inch dish.
D;Cover tightly with foil.
D;Bake at 325 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.
T;Appetizer Mini-Quiches
D;From "Appetizers" by the Editors of Sunset Books and Sunset Magazine (Lane
D;Publishing Company, Menlo Park, CA, 1990)
D;Makes about 6 dozen appetizers
I;---Flaky Pastry---
I;2 cups all-purpose flour
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 teaspoon chili powder
I;1/3 cup butter or margarine -- cold
I;1/3 cup solid vegetable shortening
I;1 egg
I;cold water -- as required
I;---Ham and Green Chile Filling---
I;3/4 cup cooked ham -- finely diced
I;3 tablespoons chopped green chiles
I;1/4 cup chopped green onions -- including tops
I;1 1/2 cups shredded Monterey jack cheese
I;---Filling Topping---
I;2 eggs
I;3/4 cup sour cream
D;Prepare Flaky Pastry:
D;Combine flour, salt and chili powder. Cut in firm butter and solid vegetable
D;shortening until mixture resembles fine crumbs. In a small bowl, beat egg
D;and enough water to make 1/4 cup. Add to flour mixture, 1 tablespoon at a
D;time, mixing until dough holds together. Shape into a ball.
D;On a floured board, roll dough 1/16-inch thick. Cut into 2-inch circles,
D;re-rolling scraps to make about 72 circles. Fit into bottoms and partway up
D;sides of 1 3/4-inch muffin cups.
D;Prepare Ham and Green Chile Filling:
D;Mix diced ham, chiles and green onions. Add shredded cheese, mixing well.
D;Place a heaping teaspoon of the filling in each prepared muffin cup.
D;Prepare Filling Topping:
D;Beat eggs lightly; beat in sour cream until smooth. Spoon about 1 teaspoon
D;of the egg mixture into each cup.
D;Bake in a 375F oven until tops are lightly browned (about 20 minutes). Let
D;cool for 5 minutes; then tip quiches out of pans. Serve warm or at room
D;temperature.
D;If made ahead, let cool completely, wrap airtight, and refrigerate until
D;next day; to reheat, spread quiches in a single layer in a shallow pan and
D;place in a 350F oven until hot (about 10 minutes).
T;Summer Slush
I;1-46 oz. can pineapple juice
I;1-12 oz. can frozen lemonade
I;1-6 oz. can frozen orange juice
I;3 pkgs. cherry Kool-Aid
I;1 cup sugar
I;1-10 oz. can frozen strawberries
I;3 1/2 cups water
I;7-Up
D;Mix all ingredients except 7-UP and put into a 5 quart pail.
D;Freeze. Thaw slightly and spoon into glasses and pour 7-Up over
D;slush.
D;Debbie
T;Meatballs: Denmark (Frikadeller)
I;1 lg. onion, chopped
I;butter
I;3/4 c. bread crumbs
I;1 3/4 c. milk
I;1 lb. ground beef
I;2 eggs
I;1 1/2 t. salt
I;1/4 t. pepper
I;1 1/2 c. beef broth (opt.)
I;1 c. sour cream (opt.)
D;Cook onion in 1 T. butter until soft. Soak bread crumbs in 3/4 c. milk; mix with
D;onion, meat, eggs, salt and pepper. Beat 1 c. milk into mixture with electric
D;mixer. Form into 12 meatballs. brown meatballs in 4 T. butter. Simmer for 5 min.
D;on each side or until done. Add beef broth to browned meatballs; simmer until
D;done. Add sour cream; heat. Makes 6 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;As I grow in self-acceptance, I am
D;learning to accept other people
D;as they are.
T;FUNNEL CAKES
I;1 egg
I;3/4 cup milk
I;1-1/4 cup flour
I;2 Tbs. sugar
I;1 tsp. baking soda
I;3/4 tsp. baking powder
I;1/4 tsp. salt
I;shortening for deep fryer ( or frying pan)
I;sifted powdered sugar
D;In medium bowl, beat egg with milk, flour, sugar, baking soda, baking
D;powder and salt. Using funnel with about 3/8 inch diameter spout
D;opening, hold finer over end of funnel spout and pour about 4 Tbs. of
D;batter into funnel. Hold funnel above fryer,move finer. As batter
D;flows through spout, move funnel in a crisscrossing pattern above
D;surface of shortening until funnel is empty. Batter should drip rapidly
D;through funnel spout, if too thick, add 1 to 1/2 Tbs. milk. Fry about
D;one minute; turn and fry about 1/2 minute. Drain. Sprinkle with
D;powdered sugar.
D;You can use strawberries, blueberries, maple syrup, whipped cream if
D;desired as well.
D;Serve.
T;Special Sandwich
I;1 pt. hot water
I;1 lg. onion, chopped
I;3/4 c. catsup
I;2 T. chili powder
I;2 lbs. lean ground beef
I;2 T. dry mustard
I;salt and pepper to taste
I;5 drops of Tabasco sauce
I;2 doz. hamburger buns
D;Combine water, onion, catsup and chili powder; boil over med. heat for 6 to 7
D;min. Add remaining ingredients except buns; cook for 5 min. Heat buns over small
D;amount of water; place large spoonful of mixture on each bun. Makes 24 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;I belong. I have a place.
D;I love and am loved.
T;CORNED BEEF BAKE
I;1 12-ounce can corned beef,
I;finely chopped
I;1/2 cup finely chopped green
I;pepper
I;1/2 cup finely chopped onion
I;1/2 cup mayonnaise or salad
I;dressing
I;1 beaten egg
I;1/2 cup fine dry bread crumbs
I;2 tablespoons shortening
I;3 slices sharp process
I;American cheese
I;1 10-1/2 ounce can condendensed
I;cream of celery soup
I;1 8-1/2 ounce can mixed
I;vegetabes, drained
I;1/3 cup milk
I;3 large English muffins,
I;halved and toasted
D;Combine corned beef, green pepper, onion, mayonnaise,
D;and dash pepper. Shape into 6 patties. Blend egg and
D;1 tablespoon water; dip patties into egg, then crumbs.
D;Brown lightly in hot shortening. Place patties in 10
D;x 6 x 1-1/2 inch baking dish. Quarter cheese slices
D;diagonally; overlap 2 trianges atop each. Combine
D;soup, vegetables, and milk; heat. Pour around
D;patties. Bake at (350F) for 12 minutes or until hot.
D;Serve on muffins.
D;Serves 6
D;Beter Homes and Gardens (1970)
T;Harvest Moons
I;1 1/2 to 2 lbs. hamburger
I;1 c. oatmeal
I;1 t. salt
I;pepper
I;1 can cr. of mushroom soup
I;whole cloves
I;1 No. 2 1/2 can cling peach halves, drained
I;brown sugar
I;vinegar
I;1/2 c. milk
I;1 t. Worcestershire sauce
D;Mix hamburger, oatmeal, salt, pepper and 1/2 c. mushroom soup; form into six
D;patties. Place in baking dish. Bake for 25 min. at 375°. Remove from oven.
D;Insert 4 whole cloves in each peach half; place in pan between meat patties.
D;Spoon 1/2 t. brown sugar in peach cavity; pour 1/2 t. vinegar over brown sugar.
D;Return to oven and bake for 20 min. Heat remaining soup, milk and Worcestershire
D;sauce. Pour over meat patties and serve at once. Makes 6 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;I belong. I have a place.
D;I love and am loved.
T;Tomato Cucumber Salad
I;2 medium tomatoes, sliced
I;1 medium cucumber, peeled and thinly sliced
I;1/2 medium onion, thinly sliced and separated into rings
I;1/2 cup salad oil
I;1/4 cup white wine vinegar
I;1 teaspoon salt
I;1 teaspoon dried basil leaves, crushed
I;1 teaspoon dried tarragon leaves, crushed
I;1/8 teaspoon pepper
I;Shredded lettuce
D;Layer tomato, cucumber, and onion in shallow glass dish. Mix oil with next 5
D;ingredients; beat with rotary or electric beater. Pour over vegetables;
D;chill, covered 5-6 hours. Drain vegetables; reserve marinade. Arrange
D;vegetables on lettuce; pass reserved marinade. Makes 6 servings
D;From BHG Make Ahead Cookbook
T;Mexicali Pork Chops
I;4 loin boneless pork chops
I;1 1/2 inch thick
I;1 1/2 cup salsa
I;1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
I;salt and pepper to taste
I;1/2 cup shredded cup monterey
I;jack cheese
I;vegetable cooking spray
D;Spray vegetable cooking spray in skilled and heat over
D;medium high heat. Brown the chops for 2 minutes on each
D;side. Add the salsa, oregano, salt and pepper to the
D;skillet. Reduce heat, cover and cook for 8 minutes at low
D;simmer. Top each chop with cheese. Cover and cook 1
D;minute or till the cheese is melted. Makes 4 servings.
D;Recipe from Recipe Arts Finder
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Italian Meatballs
D;Recipe By :© Cole Publishing
D;Serving Size : 2 Preparation Time :0:15
D;Categories : Italian Main Course
D;Sautéed
I;1/2 pound beef chuck, freshly ground or whole
I;2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
I;1 egg
I;1 piece lemon peel -- 3 inches
I;1 slice bread -- thin
I;1 clove garlic -- peeled
I;4 fresh parsley sprigs -- no stems
I;Sea salt
I;Fresh ground black pepper
I;2 tablespoons olive oil
D;Put ground beef into a blender or cut meat into 3 or 4 pieces and put into
D;blender; add cheese, egg, and lemon peel; chop coarsely. Add bread, garlic,
D;and parsley to blender and quickly blend with meat. Put meat in a bowl and
D;season to taste. Form meat into small balls about 1 inch in diameter.
D;Heat oil in a sauté pan or skillet; when oil is hot, add meatballs and cook
D;slowly over low-medium heat 3-4 minutes, turning as they become brown and
D;crusty.
D;- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
D;Per Serving (excluding unknown items): 479 Calories; 37g Fat (70.4% calories
D;from fat); 27g Protein; 8g Carbohydrate; 1g Dietary Fiber; 176mg
D;Cholesterol; 265mg Sodium. Exchanges: 1/2 Grain(Starch); 3 1/2 Lean Meat; 0
D;Vegetable; 0 Fruit; 5 Fat.
D;NOTES : Savory pan-fried balls of ground beef, egg, bread, garlic and
D;parsley. Meatballs are easy to make, but the meat must be freshly ground by
D;your butcher or in your blender or food processor. The addition of bread,
D;egg, and cheese makes these meatballs crusty.
D;Nutr. Assoc. : 3607 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T;Raisin Bran Bread
I;1 cup all purpose flour
I;1 cup whole wheat flour
I;1/2 cup packed brown sugar
I;1/4 cup wheat germ
I;1 tablespoon baking powder
I;1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;2 large eggs
I;1 1/4 cups milk
I;2 tablespoons light molasses
I;2 tablespoons butter melted
I;1 1/2 cups whole bran cereal
I;1/2 cup dark raisins
D;Heat oven to 350ºF. Fit processor with steel blade.
D;Measure flours, sugar, wheat germ, baking powder, cinnamon
D;and salt into wrok bowl. Process until mixed, about 5
D;seconds. Beat eggs with fork or whisk in large bowl.
D;Blend milk, molasses and butter into eggs. Stir in cereal
D;and let stand about 2 minutes. Pour bran mixture over
D;flour mixture. Process on/off 5 times. Sprinkle raisins
D;over batter. Process on/off 5 more times or just until
D;flour is moistened. Do not over process. Batter should
D;be lumpy. Pour batter into greased 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2
D;inch loaf pan. Bake 60-70 minutes until wooden pick
D;inserted in center comes out clean. Cool bread 15 minutes
D;in pan. Remove from pan and cool on wire rack. Makes 1
D;loaf.
D;Recipe from Easy Home Cooking Best Recipes
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Chocolate Chip Kiss Cookies
I;1 bag (9 oz.) HERSHEY'S Kisses® or Kisses® WITH ALMONDS Milk Chocolates
I;1 cup (2 sticks) butter or margarine, softened
I;1/3 cup granulated sugar
I;1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
I;1 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;2 cups all-purpose flour
I;1 cup HERSHEY'S MINI CHIPS Semi-Sweet Chocolate
I;CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE (recipe follows) or HERSHEY'S Chocolate Shoppe Topping
D;Directions:
D;1. Heat oven to 375°F. Remove wrappers from chocolate pieces.
D;2. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla in large bowl until
D;well blended. Add flour to butter mixture; blend until smooth. Stir in small
D;chocolate chips. Mold scant tablespoon dough around each chocolate piece,
D;covering completely. Shape into balls; place on ungreased cookie sheet.
D;3. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until set. Cool slightly; remove from cookie sheet
D;to wire rack. Cool completely. Prepare CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE, if desired. Drizzle
D;over each cookie. About 4 dozen cookies.
D;CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE: Place 1/4 cup HERSHEY'S MINI CHIPS and 1 teaspoon shortening
D;in small microwave-safe bowl. Microwave at HIGH (100%) 30 seconds; stir. If
D;necessary, microwave at HIGH an additional 20 seconds or until chocolate is
D;melted and mixture is smooth when stirred.
D;{http://www.hersheys.com/kisses/htm/recipe_3557_chocolate_chip_kiss_cookies.htm}
T;Orange Vinaigrette Brown Rice Salad
D;Makes 4 servings
I;1 1/2 cups uncooked brown rice
I;3 cups water
I;2/3 cup orange juice
I;2 tablespoons vegetable oil
I;2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
I;2 tablespoons honey
I;2 teaspoons orange zest
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1 1/2 cups spinach leaves, packed
I;2 large orange, peeled, sectioned, and cut into bite-size
I;1/3 cup slivered red onion
D;In a large saucepan combine rice and water. Cook over high heat until
D;mixture boils. Reduce heat to low, cover and cook for 45 to 60 minutes or
D;until rice has absorbed all liquid.
D;Meanwhile, in a small bowl whisk the orange juice, oil, balsamic vinegar,
D;honey, orange zest and salt. Pour dressing over hot cooked rice and mix
D;well. Cover and chill until cold.
D;Just before serving stir the spinach leaves, oranges and onion into the rice
D;mixture.
T;Potato and Sweet Pepper Omelet
I;1 pound (2 large) russet potatoes, peeled and cubed
I;2 tablespoons olive oil
I;2 medium-large onion, thinly sliced
I;2 large garlic cloves, finely chopped
I;1/2 cup diced sweet red pepper
I;1/4 cup diced sweet yellow pepper
I;Salt
I;Freshly ground black pepper
I;6 large eggs
I;1 tablespoon butter
I;1/2 cup coarsely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
I;1 cup grated Mozzarella or Monterey Jack cheese
I;2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese
D;Boil potatoes in water to cover for 7 minutes or just until tender. Drain
D;well. Heat oil in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion and
D;cook for 2 minutes or until tender. Add garlic, peppers, potatoes, salt and
D;pepper. Cook for 3 minutes or until peppers are tender. Beat eggs lightly
D;with salt and pepper in bowl. Stir butter into potato mixture and when
D;melted, pour in eggs and tilt pan to spread evenly. Sprinkle parsley over
D;top, reduce heat to medium-low, and cook omelet until almost set. Sprinkle
D;with Mozzarella and Parmesan cheese and place under preheated broiler for 1
D;minute or until cheese is melted and bubbly, but not browned. (and egg is
D;cooked in center, but not overcooked). Cut in wedges and serve. Serves 6
D;From "All The Best Potatoes"
T;Garlic Lentils
I;6 cloves garlic
I;3 medium onions
I;1/4 cup vegetable oil
I;1 1/2 teaspoons cumin seeds
I;1 13 ounces lentils brown
I;1 1/2 quart water
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;1/4 teaspoon chili powder
I;fresh coriander
D;Peel and finely mince the garlic cloves. Peel and dice
D;the onions. Heat the oil in a heavy saucepan and continue
D;to cook, stirring constantly, until the garlic begins to
D;brown. Add the chopped onions to the saucepan. Cook,
D;stirring until soft but not brown. Add the lentils and
D;water to the saucepan and bring to a boil. Cover the
D;saucepan and cook over low heat for approximately 1 hour,
D;until the lentils are very soft. Add the salt and chili
D;powder, sparingly, to taste. Chop the coriander and
D;sprinkle it over the lentil mixture. Serve with hot lemon
D;juice, if desired, as this will give the dish addes zest.
D;Source Unknown
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;CEREAL SURPRISE COOKIES
I;1 (6 oz.) pkg. butterscotch chips or semi-sweet chocolate chips
I;1/2 c. peanut butter
I;1 1/2 c. toasted oats cereal
I;1/2 c. flaked coconut
I;2 c. mini marshmallows
I;1 c. M & M's
D;Heat butterscotch or chocolate chips and butter in saucepan. Stir
D;constantly until melted. Remove from heat and stir in cereal and coconut.
D;Then stir in marshmallows and M & M's. Drop teaspoonfuls onto wax paper.
D;Let stand for one hour. Makes 3 dozen cookies.
D;SandyU.
D;Don't just think about telling
D;someone how you feel. DO IT!
T;Tortellini Soup
I;1 pound ground beef
I;3 1/2 cups water
I;1 28 ounce can diced tomatoes
I;undrained
I;1 10 1/2 ounce can condensed
I;french onion soup undiluted
I;1 9 ounce package frozen cut
I;green beans
I;1 9 ounce package refrigerated
I;cheese tortellini
I;1 medium zucchini chopped
I;1 teaspoon dried basil
D;In a large saucepan, cook beef over medium heat until no
D;longer pink; drain. Add the remaining ingredients; bring
D;to a boil. Cook, uncovered, for 5 minutes or until heated
D;thrugh. Yields 6-8 servings.
D;Recipe from Taste Of Homes Ground Beef CookBook
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
T;Marinated Seafood
I;8 ounces large fresh or frozen peeled and deveined shrimp
I;8 ounces fresh or frozen scallops
I;1/2 cup lime or lemon juice
I;1/4 cup water
I;1/4 cup sliced green onion
I;1 can (4 ounces) diced green chili peppers. drained
I;3 tablespoons olive oil or cooking oil
I;1-2 tablespoons snipped cilantro or parsley
I;1 tablespoon capers, drained
I;1 medium tomato, seeded and chopped (opt)
I;4 thin slices red onion, halved
D;Thaw shrimp and scallops, if frozen. Cut any large scallops in half. In a
D;medium pan, cook shrimp and scallops in boiling water about 1 minute or until
D;shrimp turns pink and scallops are opaque. Drain and rinse under cool water
D;to stop cooking. Put shrimp and scallops into a plastic bag, then set bag in
D;a bowl. For marinade, stir together lime or lemon juice and water. Pour
D;marinade over seafood in bag. Close bag tightly, then turn to evenly
D;distribute the marinade. Chill for 8 hours or overnight, turning bag
D;occasionally. Drain shrimp and scallops, discarding marinade. In a medium
D;mixing bowl, stir together green onion, chili peppers, oil, cilantro or
D;parsley, capers, dash salt and dash pepper. Gently stir in shrimp and
D;scallops until combined. Cover and chill at least 2 hours. Just before
D;serving, toss tomato with seafood mixture if desired. Arrange halved onion
D;slices around edge of serving platter. (Place rounded edge of onion out.)
D;Spoon seafood mixture into center. Makes 6 servings
D;Note: Make individual servings of this first course appetizer by arranging 4
D;halved onion slices around the edges of 6 individual plates. Spoon some of
D;the seafood mixture into center, then garnish with thin avocado slices and
D;lime wedges, if you like.
D;From BHG Cooking Mexican
T;BEEF TORTILLA PIZZA
I;1 pound lean ground beef
I;1 medium onion -- chopped
I;1 teaspoon dried oregano leaves
I;1 teaspoon salt
I;4 large (10 inch) flour tortillas
I;1 medium tomato -- seeded and chopped
I;1 tablespoon fresh basil leaves -- thinly sliced
I;1 cup Mozzarella cheese -- shredded
I;1/4 cup Parmesan cheese -- grated
D;Heat oven to 400ºF. Brown ground beef and onion in skillet over medium
D;heat
D;8 to 10 minutes or until beef is no longer pink. Pour off drippings.
D;Stir
D;oregano and salt into beef.
D;Lightly brush tortillas with oil. Bake tortillas on 2 large baking
D;sheets in
D;400ºF oven for 3 minutes.
D;Spoon beef mixture evenly over top of each tortilla; top with an equal
D;amount of tomato. Sprinkle with basil and cheeses.
D;Return to oven and bake 12 to 14 minutes or until tortillas are lightly
D;browned. Yield: 4 servings.
T;Norman's Puffed Pastry Chicken
D;From: Blue Mountain Mist Country Inn and Cottages
D;Sevierville (Gatlinburg area), Tennessee
I;Ingredients:
I;8 chicken breasts (boneless and skinless)
I;1 pkg of Pepperidge Farm Puffed Pastry Sheets
I;1 can asparagus stalks
I;1 small can ripe olives (slices)
I;salt and pepper
I;1 can cream of mushroom soup
I;1/2 cup white wine
D;Directions:
D;Pre-cook chicken breast in pot of water till done (don't over cook).
D;Lightly flour working surface, roll one sheet of puffed pastry with a
D;dough roller to about 14" - 15" square. Cut into 4 equal parts. Place
D;one chicken breast on each square. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place
D;3 asparagus spears and a few slices of olives on top of chicken. Wrap
D;pastry around chicken and asparagus. Wet and pinch together all edges,
D;making sure not to leave any openings. Place pastries on a lightly
D;greased (can use no stick cooking spray) baking sheet. Bake at 350
D;degrees until brown, approximately 30 minutes.
D;Sauce:
D;Mix and heat mushroom soup and wine in a pot.
D;Serve sauce over chicken pastries.
D;Mona
T;Meat Loaf #7
I;1 lb. ground beef
I;3/4 c. rolled oats
I;1 c. tomato sauce
I;1 egg
I;1 t. salt
I;1/2 c. catsup
D;Combine all ingredients except catsup; place in loaf pan. Top with catsup. Bake
D;at 350° for 1 hour. Makes 8 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;Today, I will pass along the
D;kindness that has been shown me.
T;The Ultimate Chocolate Cake
I;2 Cups un-sifted flour
I;2/3 Cup cocoa
I;1 1/4 Teaspoons baking soda
I;1/4 Teaspoon baking powder
I;1 2/3 Cups sugar
I;4 eggs
I;1 Teaspoon vanilla
I;1 Cup mayonnaise
I;1 1/3 cups water
D;Grease and flour bottoms of 2 (9") layer cake pans. Mix first 4
D;ingredients,
D;set aside. In a large bowl with mixer at high speed beat the next 3
D;ingredients 3 minutes or until light & fluffy. At low speed, beat in
D;mayonnaise. Add flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with water,
D;beginning and ending with flour. Pour into pans. Bake in a 350 degree
D;oven
D;for 30-35 minutes or until cake tester inserted in center comes out
D;clean.
D;Cool in pans 10 minutes. Remove; cool on racks. Frost.
T;Orange Cookies
I;1/4 cup margarine softened
I;1 1/4 cups sugar
I;grated rind of 1/2 orange
I;4 egg yolks beated
I;2 tablespoons orange juice
I;2 1/2 cups sifted flour
I;2 teaspoons baking powder
I;1/8 teaspoon salt
I;1 egg white beaten
I;1/2 cup chopped almonds
D;Cream margarine and 1 cup sugar together in bowl until
D;light and fluffy. Add orange rind, egg yolks and orange
D;juice; mix thoroughly. Sift flour, baking powder and salt
D;into separate bowl; add to margarine mixture and mix
D;thoroughly. Refrigerate until chilled. Preheat oven to
D;375ºF. Roll dough out on lightly floured board to 1/8
D;inch thickness; cut into desired shpes. Brush with beaten
D;egg whites. Combine almonds and 1/4 cup sugar in small
D;bowl; sprinkle on top of cookies. Place on greased cookie
D;sheet. Bake for 7-8 minutes. Makes 4 dozen cookies.
D;Recipe from Creative Cooking Desserts
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
D;(Peggy, if you write, please don't write to my msn addy)
T;Sausage Cabbage Soup
I;3 cups shredded cabbage
I;2 cans (14.5 oz. ea.) stewed tomatoes*
I;1 pkg. cooked kielbasa, halved lengthwise and cut into 1/2" slices (16 oz.)
I;1 can (15 oz.) Great Northern Beans
I;1 can (14.5oz.) cut green beans*
I;1 medium onion, chopped (1/2 cup)
I;1/4 cup catsup
I;2 tablespoon brown sugar
I;1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
I;2 teaspoon bottled minced garlic or 4 cloves garlic, minced
I;1/2 teaspoon pepper
I;1/2 teaspoon bottled hot pepper sauce
D;In a 4-6 quart crockery cooker, combine cabbage, undrained tomatoes,
D;Kielbasa, Great Northern Beans, green beans, onion, catsup, brown sugar,
D;Worcestershire sauce, garlic, pepper, and bottled hot pepper sauce. Cover and
D;cook on low heat setting for 8-10 hours, or cook on high heat setting for 4-5
D;hours. To serve, ladle into bowls. Makes 10 main dish servings
D;* I used a 28 ounce can of Italian seasoned tomatoes, as I didn't have any
D;stewed tomatoes on hand. Also, I omitted the green beans. Don't much care for
D;them. This cabbage soup still turned out great. Even hubby liked it. And he
D;doesn't like cabbage at all!
D;From Better Homes and Gardens
T;DATE NUT CAKE Tampa Tribune
I;1 package chopped dates
I;1 cup boiling water
I;1 teaspoon baking soda
I;1 tablespoon butter
I;1 cup sugar
I;1 egg
I;1 1/2 cups flour
I;1 teaspoon baking powder
I;1 cup chopped nuts (pecans or walnuts)
I;Confectioners' sugar
D;Combine dates, boiling water and baking soda in a bowl. Let stand 1/2 hour.
D;Beat butter and sugar. Beat in egg. Mix in flour and baking powder
D;alternately with date mixture. Fold in nuts.
D;Bake at 350 for 30 minutes in greased, 9-inch-square pan. Cool. Dust with
D;confectioners' sugar, cut and serve.
D;SandyU.
D;Don't just think about telling
D;someone how you feel. DO IT!
T;Tabasco Beef Ring
I;2 lbs. ground beef
I;1 c. prepared stuffing mix
I;1/4 c. milk
I;2 eggs
I;1 med. onion, minced
I;2 t. salt
I;1 1/4 t. Tabasco
D;Combine and blend all ingredients. Pack into a greased 9" ring mold. Bake in
D;350° oven about 25 to 30 min. Gently remove meat from mold and place on platter;
D;fill center of meat with mashed potatoes. Surround edges with beans, beets or
D;other vegetables. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
D;Today, I will pass along the
D;kindness that has been shown me.
T;Sexual Chocolate
D;Categories: beverages
D;Yield: 1 serving
I;1 pt Bailey's Irish cream
I;1 pt Kahlua
I;1 pt fresh cream
I;1 pt Hershey's chocolate syrup
I;Scoop of ice
D;Pour ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Enjoy!
T;Grasshopper
D;Categories: beverages
D;Yield: 1 serving
I;1 oz Green Creme de Menthe
I;1 oz White Creme de Cacao
I;1 oz Light Cream
D;Mix everything with cracked ice in a shaker. Strain
D;into a chilled cocktail glass. An old great standard.
T;Jack Frost
D;Categories: Beverages
D;Yield: 1 serving
I;2 oz Jack Daniels
I;1 oz Drambuie
I;1 Dash Grenadine
I;1/4 c Sweet and sour mix
I;1/4 c Orange juice
D;Combine all ingredients over ice in a glass.
T;Franfurter kranz (frankfurt crown cake)
I;Ingredients:
I;------------
I;CAKE
I;1 cup Butter; NO Margarine
I;1 1/2 cup Sugar
I;6 each Eggs; Large *
I;1 1/2 t Grated Lemon Rind
I;8 T Rum
I;4 t Baking Powder
I;3 1/2 cup Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
I;cup Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
I;BUTTE RCREAM FILLING
I;1 c Sugar
I;3/4 c Water
I;6 each Egg Yolks; Large
I;1 T Rum
I;1 c Butter;NO Margarine,Unsalted
I;c Butter;NO Margarine,Unsalted
I;PRALI NE TOPPING
I;2 T Butter
I;1 c Sugar
I;1/2 c Water
I;1 c Almonds; Blanched, Sliced
I;c Almonds; Blanched, Sliced
I;APRIC OT GLAZE
I;1/2 c Apricot Jam
I;c Apricot Jam
D;Directions:
D;-----------
D;* Egg yolks must be beaten into the cake one at a
D;time so keep the yolks seperated from each other.
D;CAKE: To prepare cake, cream butter and sugar until
D;very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in egg
D;yolks, one at a time. Mix in lemon rind and 2 T rum.
D;Sift baking powder and flour together. Gently mix
D;into the butter mixture. Beat egg whites until stiff
D;but not dry. Gently fold the egg whites into the
D;batter. Pour into a well-greased 10-inch tube pan.
D;Bake in a preheated 325 degree F. oven for about 60
D;minutes or until the cake tests done. Cool cake in
D;pan for 10 minutes adn then turn out on wire rack to
D;cool completely. Slice cake crosswise into 3 layers.
D;Pour about 2 T of rum over each layer. Butter-Cream
D;Filling: For butter-cream filling, boil sugar and water
D;to 238 degrees F. (soft ball stage). Beat egg yolks
D;until very light and fluffy, 5 to 10 minutes. While still
D;beating the egg yolks, add the sugar syrup in a thin
D;stream. Beat 5 minutes more, until very thick and
D;doupled in bulk. Slowly beat in the rum. Beat the
D;butter in a small bowl until soft and light. Beat butter
D;into the egg mixture a little at a time. Continue
D;beating until thick. Chill until mixture can be spread.
D;If mixture is too soft, beat in additional butter.
D;PRALINE TOPPING: While butter-cream is cooking,
D;spread 2 T butter thickly in a 9 X 13-inch baking pan
D;for praline topping. Then in a 1-quart saucepan, boil
D;sugar an water to 238 degrees F. (soft ball stage).
D;Stir in almonds; cook until mixture reaches 310
D;degrees F. or until syrup carmelizes. Pour syrup
D;into prepared baking pan. When cool, break up
D;praline and grind it in a blender for a few seconds.
D;APRICOT GLAZE: Finally heat jam and press through
D;a strainer or sieve to make apricot glaze. CAKE
D;ASSEMBLY: To assemble cake, place bottom layer
D;of cake on cake plate and spread with half of the
D;butter cream. Repeat with second layer. Place third
D;layer on top. Spread top and sides of cake with
D;apricot glaze. Press praline powder onto glaze.
D;Any remianing butter cream can be used to decorate
D;the top of the cake.
D;Source unknown
T;Vegetable Meat Casserole
I;1 lb. hamburger
I;1/2 t. salt
I;dash of pepper
I;1 sm. onion, chopped
I;1 can tomato soup
I;1/4 to 1/2 soup can water
I;8 med. potatoes, sliced
I;1 (15 oz.) can peas, drained
I;fine bread crumbs
D;Mix hamburger with salt, pepper and onion; brown. Add tomato soup mixed with
D;water; heat. Add more water if too thick. Place layer of sliced potato in
D;greased 2 qt. casserole, add a layer of peas, then a layer of meat mixture.
D;Repeat layers. Top with bread crumbs, cover. Bake at 350° for 1 1/2 hours. Makes
D;8 servings.
D;Joan In Oregon
T;Simple Chicken Noodle Soup
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 1 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Chicken Soups
I;1 broiler-fryer chicken -- cut up
I;6 Cups water
I;1 Cup finely chopped onion
I;3/4 Cup finely chopped celery
I;2 Teaspoons salt
I;2 Teaspoons fresh chopped parsley
I;1/2 Teaspoon pepper
I;2 Cups uncooked egg noodles
D;In large saucepan or Dutch oven, place chicken. Add water,
D;onion, celery, salt, parsley and pepper. Cover and simmer
D;over low temperature about 1 hour or until fork can be
D;inserted in chicken with ease.
D;Remove chicken from broth. When cool enough to handle,
D;remove chicken from bones, discarding skin and bones; cut
D;chicken into bite-size pieces.
D;Break noodles into small pieces and cook according to
D;package directions; drain. Skim fat from broth and discard.
D;Bring broth to a boil; add chicken and cooked noodles to
D;broth and simmer about 5 minutes.
D;- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
T;Old Fashioned Sugar Cream Pie
I;1 unbaked pie shell (8")
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;1/2 cup packed brown sugar
I;1/2 cup flour
I;Dash salt
I;2 cups heavy cream
I;Freshly ground nutmeg
D;In a small bowl, mix sugars, flour and salt. Gradually stir in heavy cream.
D;Pour into pie shell and sprinkle with grated nutmeg. Bake at 400º for 15
D;minutes. Reduce heat to 350º. Bake for an additional 20-25 minutes longer.
D;Note: Center of pie will be slightly runny when done.
D;Source: Home Cookin' with Dave's Mom
T;Hillbilly Corn Bread
I;1 cup sifted plain flour
I;1 cup sifted plain stone ground course yellow corn meal
I;1 teaspoon salt (optional)
I;1 teaspoon baking soda
I;2 teaspoon baking powder
I;1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
I;1/4 cup lard (very important...don't use synthetic shortening)
I;1 cup buttermilk or regular milk
I;1 egg
D;Pre-heat oven to 400 degrees
D;prepare baking pan (cast iron is best) by greasing with butter (butter works
D;best for producing right crust color & texture)
D;cut shortening into dry ingredients
D;stir egg into milk combine egg & milk with dry ingredients
D;stir briefly leaving a lumpy dough
D;pour into cast iron skillet
D;bake for 25 minutes
D;cool in pan 10 minutes
D;presto...the real stuff
D;from Mountain Breeze
T;Basic Chocolate Sauce (for valentines day)
I;2 oz Semisweet baking chocolate
I;2 tb Butter
I;1/2 c Boiling water
I;1 1/2 c Sugar
I;ds Salt
I;1 ts Vanilla
D;Melt chocolate in a double boiler.
D;Stir in butter, then boiling water, then sugar and salt.
D;Cook stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in
D;vanilla.
D;If not serving immediately, either reheat chocolate sauce in double boiler for
D;10 minutes or heat in microwave for about a minute.
D;Use as a topping for icecream, a dip for fruits, potato chips, or whatever.
T;Chocolate Mousse
I;1 box sugar-free instand chocolate
I;pudding mix (4 serving size)
I;3 tablespoons fat-free hot fudge syrup
I;1 8 ounce container cool whip free
D;Mix it all together until smooth. Serve chilled. Makes 6 servings and
D;has 78 calories and 0 grams of fat each.
D;Recipe from Down Home Cookin (without the down home fat)
D;and sent to you by Betty Copeland
D;North Carolina Style Pulled Pork Barbecue
T;Barbecue Sauce
I;2 cans 32 ounces each Italian plum tomatoes chopped with there juices
I;1/2 cup molasses
I;1/2 cup honey
I;1/4 cup tomato paste
I;2 tablespoons coarsely chopped garlic
I;2 bay leaves
I;2 tablespoons ground cumin
I;1 teaspoon cracked black pepper
I;1 1/2 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes or to taste
I;6 cups water
I;1 1/3 cups cider vinegar
I;salt to taste
I;2 tablespoons olive oil
I;4 pounds pork butt Boston butt
D;The day before you plan to cook the meat; prepare the barbecue sauce. Place
D;the tomatoes, molasses, honey, tomato paste, garlic, bay leaves, cumin,
D;black pepper and red pepper flakes in a large heavy pot. Bring mixture to a
D;boil. Reduce heat and simmer gently uncovered over medium-low heat; stirring
D;occasionally until the mixture is very thick; 1 1/2 hours. Add the water and
D;vinegar and return the mixture to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer gently
D;uncovered over medium-low heat for 1 1/2 hours more. Remove and discard the
D;bay leaves. Season sauce with salt. Set aside to cool. You will have about 6
D;cups of sauce. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
D;Preheat the oven to 275 degrees. Heat the oil over medium-high heat in an
D;oven proof casserole or flame proof roasting pan. Add the meat and turn to
D;brown on all sides; 8 minutes per side. Remove meat and wipe out casserole.
D;Place a rack in the bottom of the casserole. Place meat on the rack and
D;cover with 2 1/2 cups of the barbecue sauce. Bake covered, basting until the
D;meat is cooked threw and the internal temperature on a instant read
D;thermometer placed in the thickest part of the meat reads 150 to 180
D;degrees F; 4 hours. Remove the meat from the oven and set aside to cool.
D;Mean while gently heat the reserved barbecue sauce. When the meat is cool
D;enough to handle trim off and discard the fat. Shred the meat coarsely with
D;your fingers or pull it with two forks. Place the shredded meat in a large
D;bowl. Toss it with the warm sauce. Serve on buns or bread.
D;Serves 8.
D;Source unknown
D;Denise
D;Pork
T;Citrus Fish - Slow Cooker
I;1 1/2 lb. fish fillets
I;Salt and pepper to taste
I;1 med. onion, chopped
I;5 tbsp. chopped parsley
I;4 tsp. oil
I;2 tsp. grated lemon rind
I;2 tsp. grated orange rind
I;Orange and lemon slices
I;Butter slow cooker/Crock Pot and put salt and pepper on fish to taste. Then
I;place
I;fish in pot. Put onion, parsley and grated rinds and oil over fish. Cover and
I;cook on
I;low for 1 1/2 hours. Serve garnished with orange and lemon slices.
I;Crockpot Lobster Newburg
I;1 can cream of shrimp soup
I;3/4 cup evaporated milk
I;5 oz can flaked lobster
I;1 4 oz can mushrooms,drained & sliced
I;2 tbsps dry sherry
I;2 egg yolks beaten
D;Place all ingredients except eggs in crockpot, stir thoroughly, cover and cook
D;on low
D;for 4-6 hours, stir in yolks last half hour
D;Serve over rice or noodles
T;Shrimp Creole (Crockpot)
D;This is even better the next day!
I;1 1/2 C. diced celery
I;1 1/4 C. chopped onion
I;3/4 C. chopped green bell pepper
I;1 (8 oz.) can tomato sauce
I;1 (28 oz.) can whole tomatoes
I;1 clove garlic (minced)
I;1 tsp. salt
I;1/4 tsp. pepper
I;6 drops Tabasco sauce (optional)
I;1 lb. shrimp, deveined and shelled
D;Combine all ingredients except shrimp. Cook for 3 to 4 hours on HIGH or for 6 to
D;8
D;hours on LOW.
D;Add shrimp for the last hour of cooking. Serve over hot rice.
T;Athenian Shrimp In Tomato And Feta Sauce
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 4 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Seafood Crockpot
I;2 Tb Olive oil
I;1 Md Onion -- chop
I;1 Cl garlic -- mince
I;28 Oz Canned Tomatoes
I;1 Can Puree Sauce -- Thick
I;6 Oz Tomato paste
I;1/4 C Dry wine or vermouth
I;2 Tablespoons Parsley -- chop
I;1 Teaspoon Dried oregano
I;1/4 Teaspoon Fresh ground pepper
I;1 1/2 Lb Med shrimp -- peel, devein
I;2 Oz Feta cheese -- 1/4" cubes
D;Heat oil and add the onion and garlic. Cook, stirring often, until the
D;onion is
D;softened, about 4 minutes.
D;Transfer to a 3-1/2 qt slow cooker.
D;Add the tomatoes with their puree, the tomato paste, wine, parsley, oregano and
D;pepper.
D;Cover and cook for 6 to 8 hours on LOW.
D;Increase the heat to HIGH and add the shrimp.
D;Cook just until the shrimp are firm and have turned pink, about 15 minutes.
D;Stir in the feta cheese and serve immediately.
T;Cheese-Shrimp Chowder
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 2 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Crockpot
I;3 Medium potatoes -- peel/dice
I;1 cup Sliced celery with tops
I;1 Large onion -- chopped
I;2 cups Boiling water
I;1/4 teaspoon Pepper
I;1 can Evaporated milk
I;8 ounces Process Cheddar cheese -- shredded
I;1 can (4 1/2 oz) tiny shrimps -- undrained
I;4 tablespoons Dry sherry
I;Salt to taste
I;Chopped parsley
D;Put potatoes, celery, onion and boiling water in cooker.
D;Cover andcook on low 10 to 12 hours (high, 3 to 4 hours) or until potatoesare
D;tender.
D;Stir in pepper, evaporated milk, cheese and shrimps during last hour
D;. When ready to serve, stir in sherry and salt. Sprinkle with parsley.
D;Makes about 2 quarts.
T;Crock Pot Fish Stew A La Carolyn
I;3 lg. red snapper or flounder (1 1/4
I;to 1 1/2 lbs.) cut into 2 inch pieces
I;2 tbsp. olive oil or melted butter
I;1 clove garlic, minced
I;1 lg. onion, sliced
I;1 green pepper, seeded and cut in 1
I;inch pieces
I;1 to 2 zucchini squash (unpeeled),
I;sliced
I;1 can (15 oz.) whole tomatoes
I;1/2 tsp. leaf basil
I;1/2 tsp. leaf oregano
I;1 tsp. salt
I;1/8 tsp. pepper
I;1/4 c. dry white wine
I;Optional: 1/2 to 3/4 c. fresh
I;mushrooms may be included
D;Combine all ingredients in crockpot. Stir gently, but
D;thoroughly. Cover and cook on High setting for 4 to 6 hours. Makes
D;6 servings (about 3 quarts).
T;Fisherman's Catch Chowder
D;Recipe By :
D;Serving Size : 4 Preparation Time :0:00
D;Categories : Crockpot Fish
D;Main dish
I;1 pound to 1 1/2 lb.
I;fish (use any combo of following:
I;(flounder -- ocean perch
I;pike -- rainbow trout
I;haddock or halibut)
I;1/2 cup Onion -- chopped
I;1/2 cup Celery -- chopped
I;1/2 cup Pared carrots -- chopped
I;1/4 cup Parsley -- snipped
I;1 teaspoon Leaf rosemary
I;1 can whole tomatoes -- (16 oz.)
I;mashed
I;1/2 cup Dry white wine
I;1 Bottle clam juice -- (8 oz.)
I;1 teaspoon Salt
I;3 tablespoons Flour
I;3 tablespoons Butter or marg. melted
I;1/3 cup Light cream (half-n-half)
D;Cut cleaned fish into 1-inch pieces. Combine all ingredients except
D;flour, butter and cream in crockpot; stir well. Cover and cook on LOW
D;setting for 7-8 hours. (On HIGH setting for 3-4 hours.) One hour
D;before serving, combine flour, butter and cream. Stir into fish mixture.
D;Continue to cook until mixture is slightly thickened. 4 servings (about 2
D;qts.) Double recipe for 5-qt. crockpot.
T;Poached Salmon
D;Recipe By: CrockeryKitchen
D;Categories: Fish
I;1 pound salmon fillets
I;3/4 cup orange juice
I;2 tablespoons soy sauce
I;1 clove garlic, minced
D;Place the salmon in the crockpot. Add the juice.
D;Sprinkle with the soy sauce and the garlic. Cover
D;and cook on low heat for 2-3 hours or until fish
D;flakes easily with a fork.
T;Salmon Pilaf
D;Recipe By: CrockeryKitchen
D;Categories: Fish
I;1/2 cup parboiled rice, uncooked
I;15 oz diced tomatoes, drained
I;1 green pepper, seeded and chopped
I;1/4 t. paprika
I;1/2 t brown sugar
I;1 T grated onion
I;1 t chicken bouillon granules
I;6 oz canned salmon
I;1 cup cold water
D;Place rice, tomatoes, green pepper, paprika,
D;brown sugar, onion and chicken bouillon in
D;crockpot. Flake the fish carefully and add to
D;the other ingredients with the water. Stir
D;carefully to combine. Cover and cook on low
D;4 - 6 hours or on high 2 - 3 hours.
D;I usually sprinkle the top with a few more chopped walnuts.
D;layer pans or one 9" X 13" pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 35 to 40
I;8-1/2 oz. can unsweetened crushed pineapple, drained
T;3 Layer Chocolate Cake
I;1 cup cocoa
I;2 cups boiling water
I;1 cup butter, softened
I;2 1/2 cups sugar
I;4 eggs
I;2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
I;2 tsp baking soda
I;1/2 tsp baking powder
I;1/2 tsp salt
I;1 1/2 tsp vanilla
I;whipped cream filling (recipe below)
I;frosting (recipe below)
D;Combine cocoa and boiling water, stirring until smooth; set aside. 
D;Cream butter, gradually adding sugar; beating well at medium speed of electric 
D;mixer. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Combine 
D;flour, soda, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl; add to creamed mixture, 
D;beating at low speed of electric mixer, beginning and ending with flour 
D;mixture. Stir in vanilla, do not overbeat. Pour batter into 3 greased and 
D;floured 9" round cake pans. Bake at 350 F degrees for 20-25 minutes or until 
D;wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool in pans 10 minutes; 
D;remove from pans, and cool completely on wire racks. Spread whipped cream 
D;filling between layers; spread frosting on top and sides. Refrigerate until 
D;ready to serve. 
T;Whipped Cream filling
I;1 cup whipping cream
I;1 tsp vanilla extract
I;3/4 cup sifted powdered sugar
D;Beat whipping cream and vanilla until foamy; gradually add powdered sugar, 
D;beating until soft peaks form. Chill. Makes 2 cups.
T;Frosting
I;1 (6oz) pkg semisweet chocolate morsels
I;1/2 cup half and half
I;3/4 cup butter
I;2 1/2 cups sifted powdered sugar
D;Combine first 3 ingredients in heavy saucepan; cook over medium heat, stirring 
D;until chocolate melts. Remove from heat; add powdered sugar, mixing well. Set 
D;saucepan in ice, and beat at low speed of electric mixer until frosting holds 
D;its shape and loses its gloss. Add a few more drops of half-and-half if needed 
D;to make spreading consistency.
D;Jenn B aka Mom2Sam and Tiny
T;Orange Cheesecake
T;Orange Cheesecake
T;Blood Orange Cheesecake
T;Mandarin Orange Cheesecake
T;Benihana's Mandarin Orange Cheesecake
T;Candied Fig, Hazelnut and Orange Cheesecake with Port Sauce
T;Omanhene Orange Cheesecake
T;Orange Cheesecake
D;Makes 16 servings
D;Prep:  20 minutes
D;Bake:  crust at 350 Degrees F. for 10
D;minutes; cheesecake for 1 hour.
D;Refrigerate:  overnight.
I;Crust:
I;3 cups finely ground chocolate graham
I;crackers (about 18 boards)
I;2 tablespoons sugar
I;1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, melted
I;1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
I;Filling:
I;32 ounces cream cheese, softened
I;1-1/2 cups sugar
I;2 tablespoons cornstarch
I;4 large eggs
I;Grated rind from 1 large orange
I;2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
I;1 teaspoon orange extract
I;Garnish:
I;1 ounce semisweet chocolate, melted
I;1 can (8.25 ounces) mandarin oranges, drained and patted dry
D;Heat oven to 350 Degrees F.
D;Crust:  In large bowl, stir together crumbs, sugar, melted butter and
D;cinnamon until ingredients are evenly moistened.  Press crumb mixture
D;over bottom and up sides of 9-inch springform pan.
D;Bake in 350 Degree F. oven for 10 minutes. Transfer pan to wire rack;
D;let crust cool slightly.
D;Filling:  In large bowl, beat cream cheese until soft, about 1 minute.
D;Add sugar and cornstarch; beat on medium-high speed until smooth, about
D;3 minutes.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
D;Add orange rind, orange juice and orange extract; beat until well
D;combined.  Pour filling into crust.
D;Bake at 350 Degrees F. oven until cheesecake is set, about 1 hour.
D;Transfer pan to wire rack.  Run thin knife around inside edge of pan.
D;Let cool completely on wire rack.
D;Cover; refrigerate overnight.
D;Garnish:  To serve, remove sides of pan.
D;Drizzle melted chocolate over top of cake.
D;Arrange mandarin oranges around edge.
D;Source:  Family Circle 
D;Source:
D;<http://food4.epicurious.com/HyperNews/get/archive_swap51601-51700/51626.html>
T;Orange Cheesecake
D;I learned the basic recipe for this great cheesecake--one which I am
D;forced to make and bring to every family function--from the late Lonnie
D;Knisley. One of the best pastry chefs who ever worked in New Orleans,
D;he made all the desserts at Andrea's for years. The orange aspect is
D;something I added, because of a personal passion for that flavor.
I;Crust:
I;2 packages (out of the standard three in the standard box) cinnamon
I;graham crackers
I;1/4 cup sugar
I;1 stick butter, melted
I;Filling:
I;3 8-oz. packages cream cheese, at room temperature
I;1 cup sugar
I;1 cup sour cream
I;4 eggs
I;1/2 pint whipping cream
I;1 Tbsp vanilla
I;1 tsp. lemon juice
I;1/4 cup orange juice
I;Zest (grated peel) of one orange
D;Preheat the oven to 275 degrees.
D;Grind the graham crackers into small crumbs in a food processor. Add
D;the sugar and the butter and process until the butter has soaked all
D;the crumbs.
D;Dump the crumbs into a buttered 10-inch springform pan (available in
D;any kitchen department) and press a wedge of crumbs into the bottom
D;corner all the way around. Then make a bottom crust, and finally press
D;the remaining crumbs up the sides of the pan. It is not necessary for
D;the crust to come all the way to the top of the pan.
D;Put the cream cheese and the sugar into the bowl of a mixer and
D;blend on medium-slow speed until completely blended and fluffy--about
D;10 minutes.
D;Add the sour cream. With a rubber spatula, scrape down the sides of
D;the bowl after each ingredient addition (keep doing this throughout).
D;Add the eggs, one at a time, allowing them to blend in completely
D;before adding the next one. (I always break the eggs into a cup first
D;to make sure it's okay.)
D;Now add the cream, the vanilla, the juices, and the zest. Mix for
D;another five minutes or so.
D;Pour the filling into the crust. Bake in the center of a preheated
D;275-degree oven (no convection) for 90 minutes, until the cheesecake is
D;just barely browned on top.
D;Turn the oven off, but leave the cheesecake inside. After an hour,
D;open the door a crack and let the cheesecake cool in the oven another
D;half-hour. Remove the cheesecake and let it finish cooling on a
D;counter. This cooling routine will prevent the top from cracking. After
D;another hour, remove the sides of the springform pan and put the
D;cheesecake into the refrigerator. Chill at least three hours before
D;serving.
D;The best way to slice a cheesecake is with unflavored, unwaxed dental
D;floss.
D;Source: <http://foodfest.neworleans.com/rec_inv.php?RESID=217>
T;Blood Orange Cheesecake
D;From: Martha Stewart
D;Serves 8 to 10
D;Ricotta cheese makes this lighter and less rich than a standard
D;cheesecake.
I;2 cups fresh ricotta cheese
I;6 or 7 graham crackers, crushed into crumbs (3/4 cup)
I;3/4 cup sugar
I;4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
I;3 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
I;1 envelope unflavored gelatin
I;4 large egg yolks
I;1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons milk
I;Pinch of salt
I;Grated zest of 1/2 orange
I;1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
I;4 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
I;1/2 cup heavy cream, whipped
I;1 Candied Blood Orange Slice
I;Blood Orange Glaze (Recipe Below)
D;Place ricotta in a sieve lined with cheesecloth, place in refrigerator,
D;and let the ricotta drain for several hours or overnight.
D;Preheat the oven to 350 . Fit a parchment circle into the bottom of a
D;7-inch springform pan. Make crust: Combine graham-cracker crumbs and 2
D;tablespoons sugar in a small bowl. Stir in melted butter with a fork
D;until crumbs are moistened. Press into bottom of pan, and bake for 10
D;minutes.
D;Place lemon juice in a small bowl, and sprinkle gelatin over the
D;surface. Set aside for 10 minutes to soften.
D;In a small, heavy saucepan, beat egg yolks until smooth. Whisk in milk.
D;Gradually whisk in remaining 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar. Add
D;salt. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture coats the
D;back of a spoon, about 7 minutes. Do not allow to boil. Transfer to a
D;bowl, and stir.
D;Stir in softened gelatin, orange zest, and vanilla, mixing until
D;gelatin is completely dissolved. Set custard aside.
D;Place drained ricotta in the bowl of a food processor, and process
D;until smooth. Add cream cheese, and process again until smooth. With
D;machine running, add warm custard, and process just long enough to
D;combine. Transfer to a bowl, and fold in whipped cream. Pour mixture
D;into the prepared pan, cover, and chill overnight.
D;Place a candied orange slice in center of cake. Pour glaze over top,
D;tipping cake pan to cover completely. Chill for 1 hour, or until glaze
D;is set. To unmold, wrap a hot towel around sides of pan to help release 
D;cake,
D;and run a thin knife around the inside of the pan. Carefully remove
D;outside of pan. Slide onto a serving plate, and chill until ready to
D;serve.
T;Blood Orange Glaze
D;Makes enough for one 7-inch cake
I;3/4 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
I;7 tablespoons freshly squeezed blood-orange juice, strained (1 to 2
I;oranges)
I;2 tablespoons sugar
I;1/4 teaspoon cornstarch
D;In a small bowl, sprinkle gelatin over 2 tablespoons of the juice; let
D;stand until soft, about 10 minutes. In a small saucepan, bring sugar
D;and 4 tablespoons juice to a boil. Combine remaining tablespoon juice
D;and cornstarch in a small bowl. Stir until dissolved; whisk into
D;boiling orange juice. Remove from heat. Stir in softened gelatin. Cool
D;to lukewarm, and pour over cake.
D;Source: <http://www.recipelink.com/mf/31/14731>
T;Mandarin Orange Cheesecake
D;By Penny Wantuck Eisenberg (William Morrow)
D;Makes 12 to 14 servings
I;Mandel Bread Crumb Crust:
I;12 Stella D'oro Almond Toast cookies
I;1 to 2 teaspoons egg substitute (such as Egg beaters), or whisked egg
I;Orange-Scented Cheesecake:
I;24 ounces nonfat cottage cheese, such as Light and Lively Free
I;8 ounces lowfat cream cheese, such as Philadelphia 1/3 Less Fat
I;1 cup sugar
I;2 large eggs, at room temperature
I;1 tablespoon Grand Marnier, other orange liqueur, or orange juice
I;Mandarin Orange Topping:
I;1/4 cup apricot jam
I;1 tablespoon Grand Marnier, other orange liqueur, or orange juice
I;2 11-ounce cans mandarin oranges, in light syrup
D;Preheat oven to 350-degrees Fahrenheit, with a rack in the lower third
D;of the oven. Boil water in a teakettle, reduce the heat, and keep warm.
D;Have a baking dish, at least 10 X 10 inches, and an 8-inch springform
D;pan ready. Wrap the outside of the springform with heavy-duty aluminum
D;foil. Crimp the foil around the top of the pan so that it is
D;watertight. (Heavy-duty foil is wider and will wrap around the pan
D;without a seam.)
D;In a food processor, process the cookies until finely ground. Mueasure
D;out 1 cup of crumbs, and reserve the remainder in a storage container.
D;Place the cup of crumbs in a small bowl, and stir in 1 teaspoon of egg
D;substitute. Use your fingertips to distribute the egg substitute
D;throughout the mixture. If the crumbs will not hold together, add the
D;remaining egg substitute, 1/2 teaspoon at a time, until they just hold
D;together. Press the crumbs into the bottom of the 8-inch pan. Wipe out
D;the processor bowl.
D;To make the cheesecake, place the cottage chesse in a large piece of
D;cheesecloth. Draw up the sides of the cloth to form a "bag." Twist the
D;top of the bag, and squeeze the cloth to expel liquid from the cheese.
D;Wipe the liquid off the sids of the bag, then twist and squeeze until
D;no more liquid come out of the cheese. Transfer the cheese to the
D;processor bowl. Process for about 3 minutes or until completely smooth,
D;scraping down the bowl a few times. Add the cream cheese to the
D;processor. Pulse-process until the cheeses are well-blended. Add the
D;sugar, and process for a few seconds to blend. Scrape down the bowl
D;sides and process a few more seconds.
D;Scrape the batter into the prepared 8-inch pan. Put the cheesecake in
D;the larger pan and place it on the oven rack. Pour boiling water into
D;the larger pan so that it comes halfway up the sides of the cheesecake
D;pan. Be careful not to splash water into the cheesecake.
D;Bake for 40 to 45 minutes, until the cheesecake is set but a toothpick
D;inserted into the center of the cake will still come out with some
D;moist cheese attached. Remove the cheesecake from the oven, lift it out
D;of the water-bath, and let it cool on a wire rack. Cover the cake with
D;foil, and chill overnight.
D;When ready to unmold the cake, run a damp knife around the edge of the
D;cheesecake and then remove the springform sides. Press the reserved
D;crumbs onto the side of the cheesecake.
D;For the topping, melt the apricot jam with the liquer (this can be done
D;on the stove or in the microwave on high). Brush some of the warm glaze
D;over the cheesecake top. Drain the oranges and pat them dry with paper
D;towels. Arrange the fruit in slightly overlapping, concentric cirlces
D;with the rounded edge of each slice parallel to the perimeter of the
D;cheesecake, and with the slices tip to tip. Using a pastry brush, glaze
D;the oranges with the remaining apricot glaze. Keep the cake
D;refrigerated until ready to serve. This cake can be made 2 days in
D;advance, or frozen (without the oranges) for up to 3 months.
D;Source:
D;<http://www.cnn.com/FOOD/specials/1999/hanukkah/lowfat/cheesecake.recipe.html>
T;Benihana's Mandarin Orange Cheesecake (Copy Cat)
D;This to die for cheesecake is a specialty at the world's largest
D;Benihana restaurant located in the Hilton hotel and casino in Las
D;Vegas. This will be worth the extra work you put into it!
I;Cake
I;1/4  cup all-purpose flour
I;1/4  teaspoon baking powder
I;1  pinch salt
I;2  tablespoons butter, softened
I;1/4  cup granulated sugar
I;2  tablespoons milk
I;1/8  teaspoon vanilla extract
I;1  egg
I;Cream Cheese Layer
I;1  envelope unflavored gelatin
I;3/4  cup granulated sugar
I;1  cup boiling water
I;1  envelope Dream Whip (whipped topping powder)
I;1/2  cup low-fat milk
I;3 (8  ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
I;1  teaspoon vanilla extract
I;1/4  teaspoon orange extract
I;1/4  teaspoon lemon juice
I;5  drops yellow food coloring
I;1  drop red food coloring
I;Topping
I;2 (15  ounce) cans mandarin oranges (in light syrup)
I;1  teaspoon unflavored gelatin
I;Nut Crust
I;1  tablespoon water
I;2  tablespoons granulated sugar
I;1/2  cup chopped hazelnuts (2.25 oz bag)
I;Icing
I;1/4  cup shortening
I;1/2  cup powdered sugar
I;1  tablespoon milk
I;1/8  teaspoon vanilla
D;To make cake layer, combine flour, baking powder and salt in a small 
D;bowl.  Cream together butter and sugar with an electric mixer in a 
D;medium bowl.  Add dry ingredients to the butter and mix well.  Mix in 
D;milk, vanilla and 1 egg.  Pour into a well-greased 9" springform pan (or 
D;line it with parchment paper).  Slam pan down on the counter a few times 
D;to even out the batter.  Bake in a preheated 350F oven for 15 minutes or 
D;until the cake is light brown on top.  For the cream cheese layer, 
D;combine gelatin with 3/4 cup sugar in a medium bowl.  Add boiling water 
D;and stir until gelatin is dissolved.  Set this aside.
D;Prepare Dream Whip by whipping together 1 envelope of Dream Whip and 1/2 
D;cup milk with an electric mixer in another medium bowl. Whip it good 
D;until the topping makes stiff peaks.  In another bowl, whip the cream 
D;cheese with vanilla, orange extract, lemon juice and food coloring in a 
D;large bowl until smooth.  Slowly add the gelatin mixture while beating.  
D;Add half (about 1 cup) of the Dream Whip to the cream cheese mixture and 
D;beat until smooth.  Pour this mixture over the cake layer in the 
D;springform pan.  Chill for 2 hours or until firm.  Pour all liquid 
D;except 1/2 cup from the cans of mandarin oranges wedges.  Heat the 1/2 
D;cup liquid in the microwave on high for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until hot.  
D;Dissolve 1 tsp unflavored gelatin in the liquid.  Combine liquid with 
D;orange wedges and pour over the top of the firmed-up cheesecake that's 
D;still in the springform pan. Chill the cake for at least 2 more hours.  
D;For the crunchy nut crust, combine 1 Tbsp water with 2 Tbsp sugar in a 
D;small saucepan over medium heat.  When sugar is dissolved and liquid 
D;begins to boil, add the hazelnuts and stir until nuts are well coated.  
D;Stir often until the water has cooked off, then continue to stir until 
D;the sugar begins to caramelize and turn light brown. Be careful not to 
D;burn the nuts.  The nuts are done when they are light brown and glazed 
D;with candied sugar.  Pour the nuts onto a plate and let them cool 
D;completely.  When the candied nuts are cool, chop them up in a food 
D;processor until they are the consistency of crumbs.  Make the icing by 
D;combining shortening with powdered sugar, milk and vanilla.
D;When mandarin orange gelatin has firmed up on top of the cake, remove 
D;the cake from the springform pan.  Use a spatula to spread the icing 
D;around the edge of the cake.  Press the hazelnut crumbs onto the icing 
D;around the edge of the cake (you've got more than enough hazelnut crumbs 
D;and much of it will fall off as you press it on the sides).  Chill the 
D;cake for at least another hour before serving.  To serve, cut cake into 
D;8 slices.
D;Source: <http://www.recipezaar.com/67480>
T;Candied Fig, Hazelnut and Orange Cheesecake with Port Sauce
T;Cheesecake
I;For Figs:
I;1 1/2 cups tawny Port
I;1 cup chopped dried Calimyrna figs
I;6 whole cloves
I;For Crust:
I;18 vanilla wafer cookies
I;1 cup hazelnuts, toasted (about 5 ounces)
I;3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
I;For Filling:
I;4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
I;1 1/2 cups plus 3 tablespoons sugar
I;4 large eggs
I;1/4 cup Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
I;2 teaspoons vanilla extract
I;2 teaspoons grated orange peel
I;1 cup sour cream
I;1 orange
I;2 dried figs
I;10 hazelnuts
I;For Port Sauce:
I;Makes About 1 Cup
I;2 cups tawny Port
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;1 tablespoon water
I;2 teaspoons cornstarch
D;Make Figs:
D;Combine Port, figs and cloves in heavy medium saucepan and bring to
D;boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover and simmer until figs soften,
D;about 20 minutes. Uncover and simmer gently until liquid evaporates,
D;stirring often, about 40 minutes. Cool. Discard cloves.
D;Make Crust:
D;Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350F. Combine vanilla
D;wafers and hazelnuts in processor and grind finely. Add butter and
D;process until moist crumbs form. Press crumbs onto bottom and halfway
D;up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 /4-inch-high sides.
D;Freeze crust 20 minutes. Spread fig mixture onto bottom of crust.
D;Make Filling:
D;Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large
D;bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time,beating just until blended
D;after each addition. Mix in liqueur, vanilla and peel. Spoon filling
D;over fig mixture in crust. Gently shake pan to distribute filling. Bake
D;cheesecake until filling is golden around edges and center moves only
D;slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Transfer to rack.
D;Press down edges of cake to flatten if necessary. Maintain oven
D;temperature. Combine sour cream and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in
D;small bowl. Spreadmixture evenly over top of cake. Return to oven and
D;bake 10 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack. Run small sharp knife
D;around sides of cheesecake. Cool. Refrigerate cake overnight. (Can be
D;prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.) Release pan sides from cake;
D;transfer cake to platter. Cut 5 slices from orange. Cut each slice in
D;half. Cut each fig lengthwise into 5 slices. Arrange orange slices, cut
D;side toward center, around top edge of cake. Place 1 fig slice atop
D;each orange slice. Place hazelnuts between orange slices. Serve with
D;sauce.
D;Make Port Sauce:
D;Stir Port and sugar in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar
D;dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and boil until mixture is
D;reduced to 1 cup, about 13 minutes. Mix water and cornstarch in small
D;bowl. Whisk into Port mixture and boil until slightly thickened,
D;stirring constantly, about 1 minute. Cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead.
D;Cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
D;12 servings
D;Source:
D;<http://recipes.epicurean.com/recipe/15196/candied-fig-hazelnut-and-orange-cheesecake-with-port-sauce.html>
T;Omanhene Orange Cheesecake
D;Attention, all cheesecake lovers! This is a serious cheesecake; a
D;graham cracker-almond crust filled with a creamy smooth, ultra-rich,
D;dark milk chocolate and orange cream cheese batter. This is a great
D;party dessert; it must be made in advance, and will keep well for a few
D;days in the refrigerator (tightly wrapped). Despite the fact that this
D;cheesecake is a bit more "custardy" than the usual, the batter is very
D;thick, and I have not tried making it with a hand mixer for this reason
D;(if you do and it works, let me know!). To cut neatly, run a large,
D;sharp knife under hot water, then shake off (but do not dry) before
D;each cut. Cheesecake freezes well, too, if you can keep friends and
D;family from polishing it off!
I;Crust:
I;1/3 cup unblanched (skins on) whole almonds
I;1 Tbsp granulated sugar
I;1-1/4 cup graham cracker crumbs
I;5 Tbsp unsalted butter, melted
I;Butter the sides ONLY (using butter in addition to the 5 Tbsp) of an
I;assembled 9 x 3-inch springform pan (mine is a wonderful non-stick,
I;made by a company called "Kaiser"). Set aside.
I;In food processor fitted with a steel blade, combine almonds and sugar.
I;Process only until almonds are very finely chopped. Turn into medium
I;bowl; add graham crackers crumbs and mix well. Add melted butter; stir
I;to mix thoroughly.
I;Turn crust into prepared pan. With fingers or back of spoon, use most
I;of crust mixture to form a crust all the way up the pan sides. Compact
I;remaining crust mixture firmly and evenly on bottom of pan. (Try not to
I;have crust too thick where pan sides and bottom meet). Chill until
I;needed.
I;Batter:
I;20 ingots (0.7 oz. each) Omanhene dark milk chocolate, chopped
I;24 oz. cream cheese, softened
I;1-1/4 cup granulated sugar
I;2 Tbsp flour
I;Pinch salt
I;2 large eggs & 1 egg yolk
I;2/3 cup sour cream
I;1-1/4 cup heavy cream
I;1/4 cup orange liqueur
I;Grated zest of 2 large deep colored oranges
I;1 tsp pure vanilla
D;Important: this cheesecake will drip while baking -- you'll want a tray
D;under it. To make one, use about a 15 to 18-inch length of heavy-duty
D;aluminum foil. Fold each side in several times; you want a "tray" about
D;one foot square with standing sides about an inch high. The "tray"
D;should fit on an oven rack with at least an inch or two of empty space
D;on all sides to allow for air circulation. Set the "tray" aside.
D;Adjust one rack to center of oven and one rack to position below
D;center. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. In medium heat proof bowl, place
D;chopped chocolate. Set over hot water on low heat; stir often until
D;almost melted. Remove from heat and hot water; stir until smooth. Set
D;aside.
D;In large bowl of electric mixer, combine softened cream cheese, sugar,
D;flour and salt. Beat at medium speed 1 to 2 minutes, just until
D;perfectly smooth. Scrape bowl and beaters frequently throughout mixing
D;process. At a low speed, add eggs, one at time, then yolk, beating
D;until smooth after each addition. Still at low speed, add sour cream,
D;then gradually add heavy cream, beating only until combined. All at
D;once, add chocolate, which may be slightly warm. Again, beat only until
D;mixed. Remove bowl from mixer.
D;With large spatula, gently stir in liqueur, orange zest, and vanilla,
D;mixing only until blended. Batter should be smooth.
D;Turn into chilled crust. Gently twist pan from side to side to level
D;batter (batter will not reach top of crust -- ok). With toothpick,
D;prick any obvious air bubbles. Place foil "tray" on lower oven rack in
D;pre-heated oven. Place cheesecake on center rack and close oven door.
D;Bake 8 minutes. Reduce heat to 250 degrees F. Bake 1 hour and 15
D;minutes to 1 hour and 25 minutes longer, only until outer two inches or
D;so of cheesecake appears "set". Remove to cooling rack. Cool at room
D;temperature, away from drafts, 2-1/2 to 3 hours.
D;Gently loosen cheesecake from pan sides. Carefully release sides of
D;springform pan. Chill cheesecake at least overnight before serving;
D;wrap tightly when cold. Serve in small portions, accompanied, if you
D;wish, by lightly sweetened whipped cream and/or sectioned oranges.
D;Serves 16 or more.
D;Source: <http://www.omanhene.com/recipes/orangecheesecake.php>
T;Ice Cream Truffles
T;Mahon Cheese Ice Cream
T;Spiced Banana Ice Cream
T;Basil Ice Cream
T;Mocha Ice Cream Sundaes With Coffee-Caramel Sauce
T;Winter-Spiced Molten Chocolate Cakes With Rum-Ginger Ice Cream
T;Orange Marmalade Ice Cream Sandwiches With Almond Florentines
T;Dulce De Leche Ice Cream Sundaes
T;Malted Milk Ice Cream Cake With Blackberry Topping
T;Ice Cream Truffles
D;These adorable sweets are festive, fun - and so easy to make. Just be
D;sure to freeze the scoops of ice cream overnight before dipping and
D;coating them.
I;1/2 pint (about) vanilla ice cream
I;1/2 pint (about) coffee ice cream
I;1/2 pint (about) chocolate ice cream
I;20 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil
I;2 cups sliced almonds, toasted
I;2 cups sweetened flaked coconut (about 5 ounces), lightly toasted
I;1 1/2 cups shelled natural pistachios, chopped
D;Line large rimmed baking sheet with waxed paper. Using 1 1/2-inch round
D;ice cream scoop or round 1 tablespoon measuring spoon and working
D;quickly, scoop out 8 round balls each of vanilla, coffee, and chocolate
D;ice cream, placing ice cream on prepared baking sheet. Freeze ice cream
D;overnight.
D;Combine chopped chocolate and vegetable oil in large metal bowl. Place
D;bowl over saucepan of barely simmering water; stir until chocolate is
D;melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Cool chocolate until
D;barely lukewarm.
D;Place almonds, coconut, and pistachios in 3 separate medium bowls. Line
D;3 pie dishes or plates with waxed paper. Working with 1 vanilla ice
D;cream ball at a time and working quickly, drop into lukewarm melted
D;chocolate. Using fork, turn to coat and lift out chocolate-coated ball.
D;Drop ball off fork into bowl with almonds, using hands to turn to coat.
D;Place truffle in 1 prepared pie dish. Repeat with remaining vanilla ice
D;cream balls, melted chocolate, and almonds; place in freezer. Repeat
D;same procedure, dropping coffee ice cream balls into melted chocolate,
D;then coconut, and dropping chocolate ice cream balls into melted
D;chocolate, then pistachios. Freeze all ice cream truffles until firm,
D;about 2 hours, then cover and keep frozen. (Can be made 3 days ahead.
D;Keep frozen.)
D;Place 1 almond-coated ice cream truffle, 1 coconut-coated truffle, and
D;1 pistachio-coated truffle on each of 8 plates and serve.
D;Makes 24.
T;Mahon Cheese Ice Cream
I;3 cups whole milk
I;3 large eggs
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;4 oz cream cheese, softened
I;4 oz Spanish Mahón or Danish Fontina cheese, rind discarded and cheese
I;coarsely grated (1 cup)
I;1/2 teaspoon vanilla
D;Special equipment: an instant-read thermometer; an ice cream maker
D;Bring milk just to a boil in a 1 1/2- to 2-quart heavy saucepan. Whisk
D;together eggs, sugar, and a pinch of salt in a bowl, then add hot milk
D;in a slow stream, whisking. Pour custard back into saucepan and cook
D;over moderately low heat, stirring with a wooden spoon, until it
D;registers 170 to 175 F on thermometer, 2 to 3 minutes. Immediately
D;pour custard through a fine-mesh sieve into a clean bowl, then add
D;cheeses and vanilla, stirring until cheeses are completely melted and
D;incorporated. Cover surface of custard with a round of wax paper and
D;chill until very cold, about 4 hours.
D;Freeze custard in ice cream maker. Transfer ice cream to an airtight
D;container and put in freezer to harden, at least 2 hours.
D;Let soften at room temperature 20 minutes before serving.
D;Cooks' note:
D;Ice cream can be made 1 week ahead.
D;Makes about 1 quart.
T;Spiced Banana Ice Cream
D;Missy Johnson of Fairway, Kansas, writes: "My husband and i had a
D;wonderful spiced banana ice cream at bluestem, in Kansas City,
D;Missouri. Do you think the pastry chef would share the recipe?"
I;2 cups heavy cream
I;1 cup whole milk
I;1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
I;1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick
I;1 whole star anise or 1/2 teaspoon star anise pieces
I;1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
I;1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
I;1/8 teaspoon white pepper
I;1/4 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise
I;1/2 cup coarsely mashed ripe banana (1 medium)
I;6 large egg yolks
D;Special equipment: an instant-read thermometer; an ice cream maker
D;Stir together cream, milk, brown sugar, cinnamon stick, star anise,
D;nutmeg, cardamom, white pepper, and a pinch of salt in a 2- to 3-quart
D;heavy saucepan. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into cream mixture, then
D;add pod. Puree banana in a food processor, then whisk into cream
D;mixture. Bring just to a boil, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat
D;and let stand, covered, 30 minutes.
D;Return to a boil, uncovered. Meanwhile, whisk together yolks in a large
D;metal bowl. Add boiling-hot cream mixture in a slow stream, whisking
D;constantly, then pour into saucepan. Cook over moderately low heat,
D;stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until custard is thick enough
D;to coat back of spoon and registers 170 to 175 F on thermometer (do
D;not let boil). Remove from heat and force custard through a fine-mesh
D;sieve into a clean metal bowl, discarding solids. Set bowl in a larger
D;bowl of ice water and let stand, stirring occasionally, until cold,
D;about 30 minutes.
D;Freeze custard in ice cream maker, then transfer to an airtight
D;container and harden in freezer, about 1 hour. Let soften in
D;refrigerator 1 to 1 1/2 hours and then at room temperature 10 minutes.
D;Cooks' notes:
D;. Custard can be chilled in refrigerator up to 24 hours.
D;. Ice cream keeps 1 week.
D;Makes 1 quart.
T;Basil Ice Cream
D;When food editor Shelley Wiseman remarked on the basil ice cream she
D;had at JoJo, Jean-Georges Vongerichten's Manhattan bistro, other
D;editors recalled tasting herb-flavored custards in Milan years ago.
I; 2 cups whole milk
I;3 tablespoons chopped fresh basil
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;4 large egg yolks
I;1/2 cup well-chilled heavy cream
D;Special equipment: an instant-read thermometer; an ice cream maker
D;Bring milk, basil, 1/4 cup sugar, and a pinch of salt to a boil in a
D;2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring, then remove from heat and let steep
D;30 minutes. Transfer to a blender (reserve saucepan) and blend until
D;basil is finely ground, about 1 minute.
D;Beat together yolks and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a medium bowl with
D;an electric mixer until thick and pale, about 1 minute. Add milk
D;mixture in a stream, beating until combined well. Pour mixture into
D;reserved saucepan and cook over moderate heat, stirring constantly with
D;a wooden spoon, until mixture coats back of spoon and registers 175 F
D;on thermometer (do not let boil). Immediately remove from heat and pour
D;through a fine-mesh sieve into a metal bowl. Set bowl in a larger bowl
D;of ice water and stir until cold, 10 to 15 minutes.
D;Stir in cream and freeze in ice cream maker. Transfer ice cream to an
D;airtight container and put in freezer to harden, at least 2 hours.
D;Cooks' note:
D;Ice cream can be made 2 days ahead.
D;Makes about 3 cups.
T;Mocha Ice Cream Sundaes With Coffee-Caramel Sauce
D; The caramel sauce adds a grown-up edge to these summer treats.
I;1 pint vanilla ice cream
I;1 pint coffee ice cream
I;1 pint chocolate ice cream
I;1 cup fresh raspberries
I;Coffee-Caramel Sauce
I;1 cup chilled whipping cream, beaten to peaks
I;1 tablespoon finely ground roasted coffee beans
D;Arrange 1 scoop of each ice cream in each of 6 stemmed glasses.
D;Sprinkle raspberries over ice cream. Pour about 3 tablespoons warm
D;Coffee-Caramel Sauce over ice cream in each glass. Top with whipped
D;cream. Sprinkle with ground coffee beans.
D;Makes 6 servings.
T;Coffee-Caramel Sauce
I;1 1/4 cups water
I;1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
I;2 cups sugar
I;3 tablespoons unsalted butter
I;1/2 cup whipping cream
D;Bring 1 cup water to simmer in small saucepan; stir in 1 tablespoon
D;instant espresso powder. Remove from heat. Set espresso mixture aside.
D;Combine sugar and remaining 1/4 cup water in medium saucepan. Stir over
D;medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and
D;boil without stirring until caramel is deep amber color, occasionally
D;swirling pan and brushing down sides with wet pastry brush, about 10
D;minutes.
D;Stir espresso mixture into saucepan with caramel (mixture will bubble
D;vigorously). Stir until caramel bits dissolve, about 2 minutes. Stir in
D;butter. Cool slightly. Stir in cream. Serve warm. (Can be made 1 week
D;ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Rewarm over low heat just until warm and
D;pourable, stirring frequently.)
D;Makes scant 2 cups.
T;Winter-Spiced Molten Chocolate Cakes With Rum-Ginger Ice Cream
D;These cakes are great for parties because they can be completely
D;assembled the day before and then quickly baked before serving, for the
D;all-important "ooze" factor.
I;Ice cream
I;1 pint vanilla ice cream, softened
I;2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
I;1 tablespoon dark rum
I;Cakes
I;14 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
I;2 teaspoons ground coriander
I;2 teaspoons ground cardamom
I;1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
I;1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
I;1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper
I;6 large eggs
I;6 large egg yolks
I;2 teaspoons vanilla extract
I;3 cups powdered sugar
I;1 cup all purpose flour
D;Additional powdered sugar
D;Crystallized ginger strips
D;For ice cream:
D;Place softened ice cream in medium bowl. Using plastic spatula, fold
D;ginger and rum into ice cream. Transfer to airtight container. Freeze
D;ice cream mixture until firm, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead.
D;Keep frozen.)
D;For cakes:
D;Generously butter eight 3/4-cup souffle dishes. Stir chocolate,
D;butter, coriander, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, and white pepper in
D;heavy medium saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool
D;slightly. Whisk eggs, egg yolks, and vanilla in large bowl to blend.
D;Whisk in 3 cups powdered sugar, then chocolate mixture, then flour.
D;Transfer batter to prepared dishes, filling to top and dividing
D;equally. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
D;Preheat oven to 425 F. Bake cakes until batter has risen above dish,
D;top edges are dark brown, and centers are still soft and runny, about
D;15 minutes, or about 18 minutes for refrigerated batter. Run small
D;knife around cakes to loosen. Allow cakes to rest in dishes 5 minutes.
D;Using hot pad and holding dish very firmly, place plate gently atop 1
D;cake and invert onto plate. Repeat with remaining cakes. Dust with
D;powdered sugar. Top with crystallized ginger. Serve cakes with
D;rum-ginger ice cream.
D;Makes 8.
T;Orange Marmalade Ice Cream Sandwiches With Almond Florentines
D;We call for English-style bitter orange marmalade (made with Seville
D;oranges and often called Dundee) because other types made the ice cream
D;too sweet and too soft. It's available at specialty foods shops and
D;some supermarkets. This recipe makes about a dozen more florentines
D;than you'll need for the sandwiches, but it's a good idea to have extra
D;in case one or two break - and the cookies are delicious even without
D;the ice cream.
D;Active time: 1 1/2 hr Start to finish: 7 hr (includes freezing)
I;For ice cream
I;3 navel oranges
I;5 tablespoons sugar
I;1/2 cup English-style bitter orange marmalade
I;2 cups half-and-half
I;1 cup heavy cream
I;5 large egg yolks
I;1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;1/8 teaspoon almond extract
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;Vegetable oil for pan
I;For florentines
I;1 cup slivered blanched almonds (4 1/2 oz)
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;31/2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
I;2 tablespoons light corn syrup
I;2 tablespoons heavy cream
I;1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;1/8 teaspoon salt
I;2 teaspoons all-purpose flour
I;5 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely
I;chopped
D;Special equipment: an instant-read thermometer; an ice cream maker;
D;parchment paper; a 2 1/2-inch fluted round cookie cutter; a pastry
D;brush: an offset metal spatula
D;Make ice cream:
D;Finely grate zest from 2 oranges and cover zest with plastic wrap.
D;Squeeze enough juice from all 3 oranges to measure 1 1/2 cups. Bring
D;juice and 3 tablespoons sugar to a boil in a 1-quart saucepan and
D;simmer until reduced to about 3/4 cup, about 10 minutes. Add marmalade
D;and simmer, stirring, until melted, about 1 minute. Remove from heat
D;and cool.
D;Bring half-and-half, cream, remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, and grated
D;zest to a boil in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is
D;dissolved. Whisk yolks in a bowl until blended, then add 1/2 cup hot
D;cream mixture in a slow stream, whisking. Stir custard into cream
D;mixture in saucepan and cook over moderately low heat, stirring
D;constantly with a wooden spoon, until thick enough to coat back of
D;spoon and registers 175 to 180 F on thermometer (do not let boil).
D;Pour custard through a fine-mesh sieve into a (clean) metal bowl and
D;stir in marmalade mixture, vanilla, almond extract, and salt. Cool to
D;room temperature, stirring occasionally, then chill, covered, until
D;cold, at least 2 hours.
D;Freeze custard in ice cream maker. While ice cream is freezing, oil
D;bottom and sides of a 13- by 9-inch baking pan, then line bottom
D;lengthwise with a sheet of plastic wrap, leaving a 2-inch overhang on
D;each short end. Spread ice cream in pan, smoothing top, then wrap pan
D;in plastic wrap and freeze until ice cream is hardened, about 4 hours.
D;Make florentines while ice cream hardens:
D;Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 F. Line 2
D;baking sheets with parchment.
D;Pulse almonds with sugar in a food processor until finely ground. Cook
D;almond mixture, butter, corn syrup, cream, vanilla, and salt in cleaned
D;1-quart saucepan over moderate heat, stirring until butter is melted
D;and sugar is dissolved, 2 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in flour,
D;then transfer batter to a bowl and chill until firm, about 1 hour.
D;Roll level teaspoons of batter into balls and arrange about 3 inches
D;apart on baking sheets. Gently flatten balls to about 1 1/4 inches in
D;diameter with a fingertip.
D;Bake cookies in batches until golden brown, 7 to 9 minutes. Slide
D;parchment with cookies from sheet onto a rack to cool completely.
D;Melt chocolate in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan
D;of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, then remove top of
D;double boiler or bowl from heat.
D;Working with 1 cookie at a time, lightly brush undersides of cookies
D;with chocolate and put, chocolate sides up, on rack. Chill cookies in 1
D;layer until chocolate sets, about 5 minutes.
D;Assemble sandwiches:
D;Unwrap pan of ice cream and cut out 12 (2 1/2-inch) ice cream rounds
D;with cookie cutter. Lift out rounds with offset spatula and sandwich
D;each between 2 chilled florentines, chocolate sides in.
D;Cooks' notes:
D;. Florentine cookies (brushed with chocolate but not filled with ice
D;cream) can be made 2 days ahead and chilled, layered between sheets of
D;wax paper, in an airtight container.
D;. Ice cream sandwiches can be assembled 3 days ahead and frozen,
D;individually wrapped well in plastic wrap. Let soften in refrigerator 5
D;to 10 minutes before serving.
D;Makes 12 sandwiches.
T;Dulce De Leche Ice Cream Sundaes
D; Caramel ice cream, chocolate chip "blondies," and a crunchy streusel
D;sweeten the deal.
I;Chocolate sauce
I;1 1/2 cups whipping cream
I;10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;Streusel
I;1/2 cup all purpose flour
I;1/4 cup sugar
I;3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1/8 teaspoon salt
I;Blondies
I;6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
I;1 large egg
I;1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;3/4 cup all purpose flour
I;1/4 teaspoon baking soda
I;1/8 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
I;2 pints dulce de leche ice cream
D;For chocolate sauce:
D;Bring cream to simmer in medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add
D;chocolate. Whisk until smooth.
D;For streusel:
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Mix all ingredients in bowl. Rub together with
D;fingertips until small clumps form. Spread on rimmed baking sheet. Bake
D;until golden, stirring occasionally, about 18 minutes. Cool streusel on
D;sheet.
D;For blondies:
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter 8x8x2-inch metal baking pan. Using
D;electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in bowl to blend. Beat in
D;egg, then vanilla. Sift flour, baking soda, and salt over; beat just
D;until combined. Stir in chocolate chips. Spread batter in pan. Bake
D;until golden around edges and tester inserted into center comes out
D;clean, about 23 minutes. Cool in pan on rack.
D;Cut blondies into 1-inch squares. Arrange 5 squares in bottom of each
D;dish. Rewarm sauce; spoon over. Top with ice cream, more sauce, then
D;streusel.
D;Makes 8.
T;Malted Milk Ice Cream Cake With Blackberry Topping
D; Look for malted milk powder alongside the dry milk products in the
D;supermarket.
I;Cake
I;Nonstick vegetable oil spray
I;1 cup cake flour
I;1 teaspoon baking powder
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 cup sugar
I;1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1 large egg
I;1 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;1/3 cup whole milk
I;Ice cream
I;11 large egg yolks
I;3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
I;3/4 cup malted milk powder
I;6 tablespoons bourbon
I;1 1/2 tablespoons vanilla extract
I;2 1/4 cups whipping cream
I;2 1/4 cups whole milk
I;1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
I;Topping
I;1/2 cup water
I;6 tablespoons sugar
I;4 1/2-pint containers blackberries, divided
D;For cake:
D;Preheat oven to 375 F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with
D;nonstick spray. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt 3 times into medium
D;bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another medium
D;bowl until blended. Add egg and vanilla; beat until thick, about 3
D;minutes. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with milk.
D;Spread batter in pan (layer will be thin).
D;Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15
D;minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Remove pan sides. Cut enough off top
D;of cake to make 1/2-inch-thick layer. Reattach pan sides, leaving cake
D;layer in pan.
D;For ice cream:
D;Whisk first 5 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Stir cream, milk, and
D;1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar in heavy large saucepan over medium heat
D;until mixture comes to simmer. Gradually whisk hot cream mixture into
D;yolk mixture. Return to pan and cook over medium heat until custard
D;thickens enough to coat spoon, stirring constantly, about 3 minutes (do
D;not boil).
D;Strain custard into large bowl; set over pot of ice and water. Cool 1
D;hour, stirring often, then chill 1 hour. Process custard in ice cream
D;maker according to manufacturer's instructions. Spread ice cream over
D;cake in pan. Cover and freeze until firm, at least 4 hours and up to 2
D;days.
D;For topping:
D;Stir 1/2 cup water and sugar in heavy large saucepan. Add half of
D;berries and bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until syrup thickens,
D;mashing berries with back of fork, about 12 minutes. Pour into medium
D;bowl; gently stir in remaining berries. Cover and chill until cold, at
D;least 3 hours and up to 1 day.
D;Using hot knife, cut around pan sides to loosen ice cream cake. Remove
D;pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Spoon half of berry topping onto
D;center of cake. Cut cake into wedges and serve, passing remaining
D;topping separately.
D;Test-kitchen tip: To get a neat slice when cutting an ice cream cake,
D;dip a knife or cake server in a glass of hot water, then wipe it dry
D;with a kitchen towel before slicing. Repeat with each serving.
D;Makes 10 to 12 servings.
T;Almost Grandmother's Challah
D;To make this bread easier to prepare, shape the dough into two loaves
D;after the second rising instead of forming braided loaves, as is
D;traditional. Place each loaf in a buttered 9x5x3-inch loaf pan and
D;continue as per recipe.
I;1/2 cup plus 2/3 cup warm water (105 F. to 115 F.)
I;2 tablespoons dry yeast
I;1 tablespoons plus 3/4 cup sugar
I;5 large eggs
I;3/4 cup vegetable oil
I;1 teaspoon salt
I;7 1/2 cups (about) all-purpose flour
I;1 large egg yolk
I;1 tablespoon water
D;Combine 1/2 cup warm water, yeast and 1 tablespoon sugar in large glass
D;measuring cup and stir until yeast dissolves. Let yeast mixture stand
D;at room temperature until foamy, about 10 minutes.
D;In large bowl of heavy-duty mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat 5
D;eggs until blended. Add oil, salt and 3/4 cup sugar and beat until pale
D;yellow and slightly thickened, about 4 minutes. Beat in 2/3 cup warm
D;water. Add yeast mixture and beat until blended. Remove whisk and fit
D;mixer with dough hook. Add enough flour 1 cup at a time to form smooth
D;dough, beating well after each addition. Beat on medium speed until
D;smooth and elastic, about 5 minutes, adding flour by tablespoonfuls if
D;sticky. Turn out onto floured surface and knead 2 minutes.
D;Lightly oil large bowl. Add dough, turning to coat with oil. Cover with
D;plastic wrap, then with clean kitchen towel. Let dough rise in warm
D;draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
D;Punch down dough. Cover with plastic and clean kitchen towel and let
D;rise 30 minutes.
D;Grease 2 large baking sheets. Turn out dough onto lightly floured
D;surface. Divide dough into 2 equal portions. Divide each portion into 3
D;equal pieces. Roll each piece into 9-inch-long rope. Braid 3 ropes
D;together; pinch ends together to seal. Repeat with remaining dough
D;pieces, forming 2 braids. Place each braid on baking sheet. Cover with
D;towel . Let rise in warm area until almost doubled, about 30 minutes.
D;Preheat oven to 400 F. Whisk yolk with 1 tablespoon water to blend.
D;Brush dough with egg mixture. Bake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature
D;to 350 F. Bake until bread is golden brown and sounds hollow when
D;tapped on bottom, about 35 minutes. Transfer loaves to rack and cool
D;completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and
D;store at room temperature.)
D;Makes 2 loaves.
T;Chicken Soup With Loads Of Vegetables
D;Jewish chicken soup is usually served with thin egg noodles or with
D;matzah balls. The zucchini is my, not MGM's addition.
I;4 quarts water
I;1 large cut-up chicken, preferably stewing or large roaster
I;Marrow bones (optional)
I;2 whole onions, unpeeled
I;4 parsnips, peeled and left whole
I;1/2 cup chopped celery leaves plus 2 stalks celery and their leaves
I;1 rutabaga, peeled and quartered
I;1 large turnip, peeled and quartered
I;1 kohlrabi, quartered (optional)
I;6 carrots, peeled and left whole
I;6 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
I;6 tablespoons snipped dill
I;1 tablespoon salt
I;1/4 teaspoon pepper
I;1 zucchini
D;Put the water and the chicken in a large pot and bring the water to
D;a boil. Skim off the froth.
D;Add the marrow bones, onions, parsnips, celery, 3/4 of the rutabaga,
D;turnip, kohlrabi, 4 of the carrots, the parsley, 4 tablespoons of the
D;dill, and the salt and pepper. Cover and simmer of 2 1/2 hours,
D;adjusting the seasoning to taste.
D;Strain, remove the chicken, discard the vegetables and refrigerate
D;the liquid to solidify. Remove the skin and bones from the chicken and
D;cut the meat into bite-size chunks. Refrigerate. Remove the fat from
D;the soup.
D;Just before serving, reheat the soup. Bring to a boil. Cut the
D;zucchini and the remaining 2 carrots into thin strips and add to the
D;soup along with the remaining rutabaga cut into thin strips as well as
D;a few pieces of chicken. Simmer about 15 minutes or until the
D;vegetables are cooked, but still firm. Serve with the remaining snipped
D;dill. You can also add noodles, marrow, or clos (matzah) balls.
D;Tip: Make a chicken salad with the remaining chicken pieces. If you
D;want a lighter-colored soup, peel the onions and remove the chicken as
D;soon as the water boils. Throw out the water, put in new water, add the
D;chicken again with the remaining ingredients, and proceed as above.
D;Yield: about 10 servings (M).
T;Paprikas Weiss' Hungarian Cucumber Salad
D;Hungarian Jewish food is a perfect example of acculturation. Take this
D;piquant cucumber salad, which can be made with one of the three
D;different kinds of paprika - mild, sharp, or sweet. Taken there by
D;the Turks who discovered it in the New World, paprika has been
D;cultivated in Hungary since the sixteenth century.
I;3 cucumbers
I;Salt to taste
I;1 onion
I;Freshly ground pepper to taste
I;2 tablespoons white vinegar
I;2 teaspoons water (about)
I;Fresh sweet paprika to taste
D;1. Peel the cucumbers and slice into very thin rounds. Sprinkle with
D;salt and let stand for 15 minutes. Squeeze out the liquid from the
D;cucumbers.
D;2. Slice the onion very thin and mix with cucumbers. Add the salt,
D;pepper, white vinegar, and water to cover the vegetables. Sprinkle
D;paprika generously on top.
T;Beef Brisket Braised With Dried Fruit, Yams And Carrots
D;This can be prepared one day ahead, making the seder day much easier.
D;Serve steamed broccoli on the side.
I;3 tablespoons vegetable oil
I;3 medium onions, chopped
I;4 large garlic cloves, chopped
I;1 teaspoon paprika
I;1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
I;1/4 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper
I;3 1/2 cups chicken stock or canned broth
I;1 1/2 cups dry red wine
I;3 bay leaves
I;1 4-pound boneless first-cut beef brisket
I;Paprika
I;1 6-ounce package dried apricots
I;1 1/2 cups pitted prunes
I;3 pounds yams, peeled, cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces
I;6 large carrots, peeled, cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces
I;Minced fresh parsley
D;Preheat oven to 325 F. Heat oil in heavy large pot or Dutch oven over
D;medium-high heat. Add onions and garlic and cook until beginning to
D;brown, stirring frequently, about 15 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon paprika,
D;allspice and crushed red pepper and stir 20 seconds. Add chicken stock,
D;wine and bay leaves. Boil 10 minutes to blend flavors.
D;Sprinkle brisket with paprika and rub in. Add brisket to pot, fat side
D;up. Add dried apricots and pitted prunes. Cover and bake 1 1/2 hours.
D;Add yams and carrots to pot. Cover and cook until brisket is very
D;tender, about 2 1/2 hours longer. Remove from oven and let stand 20
D;minutes. Remove brisket from pot and slice thinly across grain. Arrange
D;on platter. Degrease pan juices. Spoon pan juices over meat. Arrange
D;fruit and vegetables around meat. Garnish with minced fresh parsley and
D;serve. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate before
D;slicing meat. To serve, remove meat from pot and slice thinly across
D;grain. Remove any solid fat from sauce. Return sliced meat to pot.
D;Place pot in 325 F oven and bake until brisket is heated through,
D;about 30 minutes.)
D;Serves 8.
T;Roast Chicken With Orange, Lemon, And Ginger
D;(Pollo Arrosto All'Arancia, Limone, e Zenzero)
D;Ginger arrived in Italy with Arabic traders or North African Jewish
D;immigrants, so it's likely that this is a Sicilian or Livornese recipe.
D;Most Italians would use ground ginger, but since fresh ginger is so
D;plentiful at our markets, why not use it?
I;1 lemon
I;1 roasting chicken, about 5 pounds
I;Grated zest of 1 lemon, then lemon cut into quarters
I;Grated zest of 1 orange, then orange cut into quarters
I;3 tablespoons peeled and grated fresh ginger root
I;Salt and freshly ground black pepper
I;5 tablespoons margarine, melted, or olive oil
I;4 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
I;1/2 cup fresh orange juice
I;3 tablespoons honey
I;Orange sections for garnish
D;Preheat an oven to 350 F.
D;Cut the lemon into quarters. Rub the outside of the chicken with one of
D;the lemon quarters, then discard. In a small bowl, stir together the
D;lemon and orange zests and 1 tablespoon of the grated ginger. Rub this
D;mixture evenly in the cavity. Put the lemon and orange quarters inside
D;the bird. Place the chicken on a rack in a roasting pan. Sprinkle it
D;with salt and pepper. In the now-empty small bowl, combine the melted
D;margarine or olive oil, lemon and orange juices, honey, and the
D;remaining 2 tablespoons ginger. Mix well.
D;Place the chicken in the oven and roast, basting with the citrus juice
D;mixture at least 4 times during cooking, until the juices run clear
D;when the thigh is pierced with a knife, about 1 hour.
D;Transfer to a serving platter and let rest for 10 to 15 minutes. Carve
D;the chicken. Garnish with orange sections.
D;Variation: Use 4 tablespoons pomegranate juice in place of the lemon
D;juice.
D;Makes 4 servings.
T;Spiced Braised Lamb With Carrots And Spinach
D;Sephardim (Jews of Middle Eastern and Mediterranean extraction) eat
D;coriander seeds during Passover; if you do not because you are from an
D;eastern European Jewish background, you can simply leave the coriander
D;out of this recipe.
D;Active time: 50 min Start to finish: 3 hr
I;3 1/2 lb boneless lamb shoulder, trimmed and cut into 2-inch pieces
I;1 teaspoon black pepper
I;1 1/2 teaspoons salt
I;1 to 3 tablespoons olive oil
I;1 large onion, chopped
I;1 celery rib, chopped
I;3 garlic cloves, finely chopped
I;4 teaspoons ground cumin
I;2 teaspoons ground coriander
I;2 cups water
I;1 (14- to 16-oz) can whole tomatoes in juice
I;6 medium carrots, cut crosswise into 2 1/2-inch pieces
I;1 1/2 lb spinach, coarse stems discarded
D;Preheat oven to 350 F.
D;Pat lamb dry and sprinkle with pepper and 1 teaspoon salt. Heat 1
D;tablespoon oil in a 10-inch heavy skillet (preferably cast-iron) over
D;moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then brown lamb in 5
D;batches, turning occasionally, about 4 minutes per batch, adding more
D;oil as needed. Transfer as browned to an ovenproof 6- to 7-quart wide
D;heavy pot.
D;Pour off all but 1 tablespoon fat from skillet, then cook onion and
D;celery in remaining fat over moderate heat, stirring occasionally,
D;until golden, about 3 minutes. Add garlic, cumin, and coriander and
D;cook, stirring, 1 minute. Add 1 cup water and deglaze skillet by
D;boiling, stirring and scraping up any brown bits, 1 minute, then pour
D;mixture over lamb in pot.
D;Pour juice from can of tomatoes into stew, then coarsely chop tomatoes
D;and add to stew along with remaining cup water and remaining 1/2
D;teaspoon salt and bring to a boil (liquid should almost cover meat).
D;Cover pot and braise lamb in middle of oven 1 1/2 hours. Stir in
D;carrots and continue to braise until carrots and lamb are tender, 20 to
D;30 minutes. Transfer pot to top of stove and, working over moderately
D;high heat, stir in spinach by handfuls to soften it. Cook, uncovered,
D;stirring occasionally, until spinach is tender, 5 to 8 minutes. Season
D;with salt and pepper.
D;Cooks' note:
D;. Braised lamb improves in flavor when made 1 day ahead. Prepare
D;without spinach and cool, uncovered, then chill, covered. Remove any
D;solidified fat before reheating and add spinach once stew is hot.
D;Makes 8 servings.
T;Sweet-And-Sour Stuffed Mustard Cabbage
D;There are several varieties of mustard cabbage; for this recipe we used
D;wrapped-heart mustard cabbage, also called swatow or dai gai choy.
D;Sharp and pungent when raw, mustard cabbage sweetens and mellows with
D;wilting and slow cooking. Try serving this dish with mashed potatoes,
D;which go very well with the gravylike tomato sauce the stuffed cabbage
D;is cooked in.
D;Active time: 45 min Start to finish: 2 3/4 hr
I;For sauce
I;1 large onion (1 lb), halved and thinly sliced crosswise
I;3 tablespoons vegetable oil
I;1 (28- to 32-oz) can whole tomatoes including juice
I;3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
I;3 tablespoons packed dark brown sugar
I;1/2 cup dried sour cherries
I;2 teaspoons salt
I;1/2 teaspoon black pepper
I;For stuffed cabbage
I;2 lb wrapped-heart mustard cabbage (2 heads)
I;1 lb ground chuck (preferably not lean)
I;3 tablespoons long-grain rice
I;3 tablespoons water
I;1/4 cup grated onion
I;2 teaspoons salt
I;1/4 teaspoon black pepper
D;Make sauce:
D;Cook onion in oil in a 12-inch deep heavy skillet over moderate heat,
D;stirring occasionally, until golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Add tomatoes
D;with juice, lemon juice, brown sugar, cherries, salt, and pepper and
D;simmer, uncovered, breaking up tomatoes into smaller pieces with a
D;wooden spoon and stirring occasionally, 30 minutes.
D;Stuff cabbage while sauce simmers:
D;Immerse whole heads of cabbage, 1 at a time if necessary, in a large
D;pot of boiling salted water and cook until leaves are tender but still
D;hold their shape, about 5 minutes. Transfer cabbages with a large
D;slotted spoon to a large bowl of ice and cold water to stop cooking,
D;then drain in a colander. Separate leaves, then cut off and reserve
D;tough stem ends. Discard core. Pat leaves dry with paper towels.
D;Stir together beef, rice, water, onion, salt, and pepper. Spread out 1
D;large cabbage leaf on a work surface and put 2 tablespoons filling in
D;center. Fold both sides of leaf toward center (over filling), then fold
D;stem over filling and roll tightly into a cylinder. Stuff remaining
D;cabbage leaves in same manner, using less filling for smaller leaves.
D;Chop any unused leaves and reserved stem ends and stir into simmering
D;sauce.
D;Arrange stuffed cabbage rolls, seam sides down, in 1 layer over sauce
D;and simmer, covered, 1 1/2 hours.
D;Cooks' note:
D;. Stuffed cabbage rolls can be cooked 2 days ahead and cooled,
D;uncovered, then chilled, covered. Reheat before serving.
D;Makes 6 main-course servings.
T;Veal Shoulder With Porcini Mushrooms, Garlic And Rosemary
D;Start making this at least one day ahead.
I;1 3/4-ounce package dried porcini mushrooms
I;8 large garlic cloves
I;1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary
I;1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves
I;1 teaspoon kosher salt
I;1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
I;1 5-pound veal shoulder clod roast, tied to hold shape
I;1/4 cup olive oil
I;2 pounds meaty veal neck bones
I;4 cups canned low-salt chicken broth
I;1/2 cup dry red wine
I;1/2 cup drained chopped canned tomatoes
I;3 tablespoons tomato paste
I;1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Grind mushrooms to powder in coffee or spice
D;mill. Coarsely chop garlic, rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper in
D;processor. Set aside 1 tablespoon garlic mixture; press remainder, 1/2
D;teaspoon at a time, into center of veal through openings of string (or
D;poke holes in veal and push garlic mixture in). Coat outside of veal
D;with mushroom powder.
D;Heat oil in heavy large pot over medium-high heat. Add bones and brown
D;well, about 8 minutes. Transfer bones to bowl. Add veal to pot. Brown
D;on all sides, about 5 minutes. Add reserved 1 tablespoon garlic mixture
D;and any remaining mushroom powder to pot around veal and stir 1 minute.
D;Arrange bones around veal. Add broth, wine, tomatoes, tomato paste and
D;vinegar. Bring to boil. Cover; place in oven and roast until veal is
D;tender, turning veal every 30 minutes, about 2 hours. Cool veal
D;uncovered 1 hour. Discard bones. Refrigerate until cold, then cover and
D;keep refrigerated 1 day. Scrape off fat from surface of sauce. Transfer
D;veal to work surface, scraping any sauce back into pot. Remove strings.
D;Cut veal crosswise into scant 1/2-inch-thick slices. Overlap slices in
D;large baking dish. Boil sauce until reduced to 3 1/2 cups, about 20
D;minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Spoon sauce over veal.
D;(Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with foil and chill.)
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Bake veal covered until heated, about 35
D;minutes.
D;Makes 8 servings.
T;Honey Ginger-Glazed Carrots
D;Can be prepared in 45 minutes or less.
I;3 pounds carrots, cut into 3- by 1/2-inch sticks
I;3 tablespoons honey
I;2 tablespoons unsalted butter
I;1 tablespoon finely chopped peeled fresh gingerroot
D;In a kettle cover carrots with salted water by 2 inches and boil,
D;uncovered, until tender, about 10 minutes.
D;While carrots are cooking, cook honey, butter, and gingerroot over
D;moderate heat, stirring, until butter is melted.
D;Drain carrots well and in a bowl toss with honey glaze and salt and
D;pepper to taste.
D;Serves 8.
T;KUGEL YERUSHALMI
D;(Hasidic Caramelized Noodle Pudding)
D;The Chmielnicki massacres in Poland in 1648, the apostasy of the false
D;messiah Shabbetai Tzvi in 1666, the subsequent partition of Poland, and
D;other problems shook the Jewish communities of eastern Europe. Some
D;Jews found an answer in the freedom offered by the Enlightenment
D;(Haskala in Yiddish). Others turned to Kabbalistic healers and miracle
D;workers. One of these holy men was Israel ben Eliezer, commonly called
D;the Ba'al Shem Tov (Master of the Good Name). By the time of his death
D;in 1760, he had created a full-fledged religious movement known as
D;Hasidism and, within a generation, the bulk of the Jews in central
D;Poland, Galicia, and the Ukraine were Hasidim.
D;Beginning in the late 1700s, groups of Hasidim began moving to the Holy
D;Land in order to live a more fully religious life. They brought with
D;them the traditions of eastern Europe, including their manner of dress
D;and foods. It was among the Hasidim of Jerusalem that this distinctive
D;noodle kugel, which features a tantalizing contrast of pepper and
D;caramelized sugar, was popularized.
I;1 pound thin noodles or vermicelli
I;2/3 cup vegetable oil
I;3/4 cup sugar
I;about 1 teaspoon salt
I;1/2 to 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper
I;6 large eggs, lightly beaten
D;Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add the noodles
D;and cook until tender, 5 to 8 minutes. Drain and set aside.
D;Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Grease a 13-by-9-inch baking dish or a
D;large tube pan.
D;Heat the oil in a large saucepan over low heat. Add the sugar and stir
D;until dissolved. Stop stirring and cook until dark brown but not
D;burned, about 10 minutes.
D;Immediately add the noodles, stirring to coat evenly. Remove from the
D;heat and season with salt and pepper. Let cool until lukewarm, at least
D;15 minutes, then add the eggs. Adjust the seasonings.
D;Spoon the noodle mixture into the prepared baking dish. Bake until
D;golden brown and crispy - about 1 hour for the baking dish, about 1
D;1/2 hours for the tube pan. Serve warm or at room temperature with
D;roast chicken, meat, or cholent.
D;Serves 10.
T;Chocolate Whiskey Bundt Cake
D;Most of the alcohol in this cake cooks off, but a distinct whiskey
D;flavor remains.
I;1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process) plus 3 tablespoons
I;for dusting pan
I;1 1/2 cups brewed coffee
I;1/2 cup American whiskey
I;2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
I;2 cups sugar
I;2 cups all-purpose flour
I;1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
I;1/2 teaspoon salt
I;2 large eggs
I;1 teaspoon vanilla
D;Special equipment: a 10-inch bundt pan (3 1/4 inches deep; 3-qt
D;capacity)
D;Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream
D;Garnish: confectioners sugar for dusting
D;Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 F. Butter
D;bundt pan well, then dust with 3 tablespoons cocoa powder, knocking out
D;excess.
D;Heat coffee, whiskey, butter, and remaining cup cocoa powder in a
D;3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, whisking, until butter is
D;melted. Remove from heat, then add sugar and whisk until dissolved,
D;about 1 minute. Transfer mixture to a large bowl and cool 5 minutes.
D;While chocolate mixture cools, whisk together flour, baking soda, and
D;salt in a bowl. Whisk together eggs and vanilla in a small bowl, then
D;whisk into cooled chocolate mixture until combined well. Add flour
D;mixture and whisk until just combined (batter will be thin and bubbly).
D;Pour batter into bundt pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer
D;inserted in center comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
D;Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, about 2 hours. Loosen cake from
D;pan using tip of a dinner knife, then invert rack over pan and turn
D;cake out onto rack.
D;Cooks' note:
D;This cake improves in flavor if made at least 1 day ahead and kept, in
D;a cake keeper or wrapped well in plastic wrap, at cool room
D;temperature. It can be made up to 5 days ahead and chilled. Bring to
D;room temperature before serving.
D;Makes 12 to 14 servings.
T;Devil's Food Cake With Chocolate-Orange Buttercream
D;A subtle hint of lavender accents this lovely dessert. It can also be
D;left out if you prefer.
I;Cake
I;4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
I;1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
I;1 teaspoon baking powder
I;1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
I;1/4 teaspoon baking soda
I;1/2 cup whole milk
I;1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
I;1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
I;3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;2 teaspoons dried lavender blossoms,* finely ground in spice mill
I;4 large eggs
I;Buttercream frosting
I;8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
I;7 tablespoons (or more) water
I;1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;4 cups powdered sugar, divided
I;1 tablespoon grated orange peel
I;2 teaspoons vanilla extract
I;1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
I;1 tablespoon Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
I;Chocolate curls
D;For cake:
D;Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 F. Butter and flour
D;two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms
D;of pans with parchment paper rounds. Stir chocolate in top of double
D;boiler set over simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water.
D;Cool to barely lukewarm.
D;Sift flour and next 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Whisk milk and
D;yogurt to blend in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar,
D;butter, and lavender in large bowl until smooth. Beat in eggs, 1 at a
D;time. Beat in melted chocolate until smooth. Mix in dry ingredients
D;alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions each. Divide batter
D;between prepared pans.
D;Bake cakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 30
D;minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn cakes out onto
D;racks; remove parchment and cool completely.
D;For buttercream frosting:
D;Stir 8 ounces chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering
D;water until smooth. Cool until barely lukewarm but still pourable. Mix
D;cocoa powder and 7 tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan. Stir over
D;medium-low heat until smooth and thick but still pourable, adding more
D;water by teaspoonfuls if necessary. Cool.
D;Beat butter, 1/3 cup powdered sugar, and orange peel in large bowl to
D;blend. Add melted chocolate, vanilla, and salt; beat until smooth. Beat
D;in cocoa mixture. Gradually add remaining 3 2/3 cups powdered sugar and
D;beat until frosting is smooth. Mix in Grand Marnier.
D;Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting over top of
D;cake. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top
D;and sides of cake, swirling decoratively. Mound chocolate curls in
D;center of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and
D;refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 2 hours before
D;serving.)
D;*Dried lavender blossoms are available at natural foods stores and at
D;some specialty foods stores and farmers' markets.
D;Makes 12 servings.
T;Sour Cream Chocolate-Chip Cake
D;Holidays in our home were strategic missions. We had a plan, everyone
D;had a job, and in a perfect world, we would somehow deploy the food
D;from a cleaned kitchen to a set table, complete with ice in glasses, by
D;5:30 p.m. Time was scarce. To compensate, my mom had a collection of
D;simple coffee cakes that were quick, had enough chocolate to qualify as
D;desserts in my family, and didn't contain walnuts (as they bother her
D;mouth).
D;This was the first from-scratch cake she taught me. It's good, easy,
D;and practical, with chunks of chocolate and a sprinkling of spice.
I;Topping
I;1 cup finely chopped pecans
I;1/4 cup whole pecans
I;1 12-ounce package of chocolate chips
I;1/4 cup packed brown sugar
I;2 teaspoons cinnamon
I;Batter
I;2 cups flour
I;1 cup sugar
I;1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
I;2 eggs
I;1 cup sour cream
I;2 teaspoons vanilla
I;1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
I;1 teaspoon baking soda
I;1 teaspoon cinnamon
I;1/4 cup powdered sugar (optional)
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter a 10- to 12-cup Bundt pan; dust with
D;flour.
D;For topping:
D;In a medium bowl, combine brown sugar, chocolate chips, chopped pecans,
D;and cinnamon, and set aside.
D;For batter:
D;Sift flour, baking powder, and baking soda into a medium bowl and set
D;aside.
D;Using an electric mixer, cream butter and sugar until completely
D;blended. Beat in eggs and then sour cream until the mixture is creamy
D;and smooth. Slowly add the sifted dry ingredients, making certain to
D;scrape the sides of the bowl into the mixture. Stir in the cinnamon and
D;vanilla. Mix until batter is well blended.
D;Sprinkle whole pecans on the bottom of the prepared pan. Evenly
D;distribute 1/4 cup of topping in the pan. Fold the remaining topping
D;into the batter until mixed well. Pour the batter into the pan, spread
D;evenly, and bake 35-40 minutes. To test that the cake is done, insert a
D;tester (I use a toothpick) into the center. If the cake is done, it
D;will come out clean, without any batter sticking to it.
D;Cool the cake for at least 20 minutes in the pan. Once the cake has
D;cooled, put a plate or serving piece you will use upside down on top of
D;the cake pan, so that the face of the plate covers the open portion of
D;the cake pan completely. Invert the plate and pan at the same time and
D;place on a flat surface. Using pot holders, slowly raise the pan so
D;that the cake stands upright on the serving plate. Sprinkle with
D;powdered sugar to decorate.
D;Note: This cake freezes well and may be made up to two days in advance.
D;Makes 12 servings.
T;Double Chocolate Layer Cake
D;This old-fashioned chocolate cake made our staff swoon! Chef Ed Kasky
D;uses Callebaut semisweet chocolate for the cake and Guittard
D;French-vanilla chocolate for the frosting, but any fine-quality
D;semisweet chocolate will produce a wonderful result in either.
I;For cake layers
I;3 ounces fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
I;1 1/2 cups hot brewed coffee
I;3 cups sugar
I;2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
I;1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
I;2 teaspoons baking soda
I;3/4 teaspoon baking powder
I;1 1/4 teaspoons salt
I;3 large eggs
I;3/4 cup vegetable oil
I;1 1/2 cups well-shaken buttermilk
I;3/4 teaspoon vanilla
I;For ganache frosting
I;1 pound fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
I;1 cup heavy cream
I;2 tablespoons sugar
I;2 tablespoons light corn syrup
I;1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
D;Special equipment
D;two 10- by 2-inch round cake pans
D;Make cake layers:
D;Preheat oven to 300 F. and grease pans. Line bottoms with rounds of
D;wax paper and grease paper.
D;Finely chop chocolate and in a bowl combine with hot coffee. Let
D;mixture stand, stirring occasionally, until chocolate is melted and
D;mixture is smooth.
D;Into a large bowl sift together sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking
D;soda, baking powder, and salt. In another large bowl with an electric
D;mixer beat eggs until thickened slightly and lemon colored (about 3
D;minutes with a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a hand-held mixer).
D;Slowly add oil, buttermilk, vanilla, and melted chocolate mixture to
D;eggs, beating until combined well. Add sugar mixture and beat on medium
D;speed until just combined well. Divide batter between pans and bake in
D;middle of oven until a tester inserted in center comes out clean, 1
D;hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes.
D;Cool layers completely in pans on racks. Run a thin knife around edges
D;of pans and invert layers onto racks. Carefully remove wax paper and
D;cool layers completely. Cake layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept,
D;wrapped well in plastic wrap, at room temperature.
D;Make frosting:
D;Finely chop chocolate. In a 1 1/2- to 2-quart saucepan bring cream,
D;sugar, and corn syrup to a boil over moderately low heat, whisking
D;until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate,
D;whisking until chocolate is melted. Cut butter into pieces and add to
D;frosting, whisking until smooth.
D;Transfer frosting to a bowl and cool, stirring occasionally, until
D;spreadable (depending on chocolate used, it may be necessary to chill
D;frosting to spreadable consistency).
D;Spread frosting between cake layers and over top and sides. Cake keeps,
D;covered and chilled, 3 days. Bring cake to room temperature before
D;serving.
D;Serves 12 to 14.
T;Chocolate Layer Cake With Mocha Frosting And Almonds
I;Cake
I;1 1/4 cups cake flour
I;3/4 teaspoon baking soda
I;1/4 teaspoon salt
I;1 1/3 cups sugar
I;1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
I;2/3 cup buttermilk
I;1 teaspoon vanilla extract
I;10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1 large egg
I;1 large egg yolk
I;Frosting
I;1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee crystals
I;2 teaspoons vanilla extract
I;10 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
I;1 tablespoon light corn syrup
I;2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
I;1 cup sliced almonds, lightly toasted
D;For cake: Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 F. Line
D;bottom of 9-inch round cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment
D;paper. Butter and flour sides of pan and parchment. Sift flour, baking
D;soda, and salt into medium bowl. Whisk 2/3 cup sugar and cocoa in
D;another medium bowl to blend; add 1/3 cup buttermilk and vanilla and
D;whisk until smooth. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl
D;until fluffy. Add 2/3 cup sugar; beat until well blended. Beat in egg
D;and egg yolk. Add buttermilk-cocoa mixture; beat to blend. Beat in
D;flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with 1/3 cup buttermilk in 2
D;additions. Transfer batter to pan.
D;Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40
D;minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Cut around pan sides.
D;Invert cake onto plate. Peel off parchment paper.
D;For frosting: Stir espresso powder and vanilla in small bowl until
D;espresso dissolves. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over
D;simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water; cool.
D;Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add
D;espresso mixture and corn syrup; blend well, scraping down sides of
D;bowl occasionally. Beat in melted chocolate, then powdered sugar in 3
D;additions. If frosting is very soft, freeze until firm enough to
D;spread, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes.
D;Spoon 2/3 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip.
D;Slice cake in half horizontally. Place bottom layer on 8-inch cardboard
D;round or 8-inch tart pan bottom. Spread 1 cup frosting over bottom cake
D;layer. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top
D;and sides of cake. Reserve 24 almond slices. Press remaining almonds
D;onto sides of cake. Pipe 12 frosting rosettes around top edge of cake,
D;spacing evenly. Place 2 almond slices in each rosette. (Can be made 1
D;day ahead. Cover; chill. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before
D;serving.)
D;Makes 12 servings.
T;Irish Cream Chocolate Mousse Cake
I;For Mousse:
I;4 large eggs
I;1/3 cup sugar
I;12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
I;1/4 cup Irish cream liqueur
I;For Syrup:
I;2/3 cup sugar
I;5 tablespoons water
I;5 tablespoons Irish whiskey
I;For Cake:
I;6 large eggs
I;3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
I;2 tablespoons instant espresso powder or coffee powder
I;Pinch of salt
I;1 cup all purpose flour
I;For Chocolate Bands:
I;2 14 1/2 x 3-inch waxed paper strips
I;4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
I;1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon solid vegetable shortening
I;For Chocolate curls:
I;12 1-ounce squares semisweet baking chocolate
I;Powdered sugar
D;Mousse:
D;Whisk eggs and sugar in large metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of
D;simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water) and whisk
D;constantly until candy thermometer registers 160 F., about 5 minutes.
D;Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat egg mixture
D;until cool and very thick, about 10 minutes.
D;Place chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water; stir
D;until melted and smooth. Remove chocolate from over water. Cool to luke
D;warm.
D;Combine cream and Irish cream liqueur in medium bowl; beat to stiff
D;peaks. Pour luke warm melted chocolate over egg mixture and fold
D;together. Fold in cream mixture. Cover and chill until set, at least 4
D;hours or overnight.
D;Syrup:
D;Combine sugar and water in small saucepan. Stir over low heat until
D;sugar dissolves. Increase heat and bring to boil. Remove from heat. Mix
D;in whiskey. Cool. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at
D;room temperature.)
D;Cake:
D;Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2
D;3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Using electric
D;mixer, beat eggs, sugar, espresso powder and salt in large bowl until
D;mixture thickens and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are
D;lifted, about 8 minutes. Sift 1/3 of flour over and gently fold into
D;egg mixture. Repeat 2 more times (do not overmix or batter may
D;deflate.)
D;Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center
D;comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
D;Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan
D;sides. Turn out cake. Remove pan bottom. Peel off parchment. (Can be
D;prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap cake in plastic and chill.)
D;Assembly:
D;Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally into 3 layers. Place bottom
D;cake layer on platter. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread 2 cups
D;mousse over. Top with second cake layer. Brush with 3 tablespoons
D;syrup. Spread 2 cups mousse over. Top with third cake layer, cut side
D;down. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread remaining mousse over top
D;and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake while preparing chocolate bands.
D;Chocolate Bands:
D;Line large baking sheet with foil and set aside. Place another large
D;sheet of foil on work surface; top with waxed paper strips, spacing
D;apart. Stir chopped semisweet chocolate and vegetable shortening in
D;heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Pour half
D;of melted chocolate down center of each waxed paper strip. Using metal
D;icing spatula, spread chocolate to cover strips evenly and completely,
D;allowing some chocolate to extend beyond edges of paper strips. Using
D;fingertips, lift strips and place on clean foil-lined baking sheet.
D;Refrigerate just until chocolate begins to set but is still very
D;flexible, about 2 minutes.
D;Remove chocolate bands from refrigerator. Using fingertips, lift 1 band
D;from foil. With chocolate side next to cake, place band around side of
D;cake; press gently to adhere (band will be higher than cake). Repeat
D;with second chocolate band, pressing onto uncovered side of cake so
D;that ends of chocolate bands just meet (if ends overlap, use scissors
D;to trim any excess paper and chocolate). Refrigerate until chocolate
D;sets, about 5 minutes. Gently peel off paper. Refrigerate cake.
D;Chocolate curls:
D;Line baking sheet with foil. Unwrap 1 square of chocolate. Place
D;chocolate on its paper wrapper in microwave. Cook on High just until
D;chocolate begins to soften slightly, about 1 minute (time will vary
D;depending on power of microwave). Turn chocolate square onto 1 side and
D;hold in hand. Working over foil-lined sheet, pull vegetable peeler
D;along sides of chocolate, allowing chocolate curls to fall gently onto
D;foil. Form as many curls as possible. Repeat process with remaining
D;chocolate squares. Place curls decoratively atop cake, mounding
D;slightly. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Refrigerate cake.)
D;Sift powdered sugar over chocolate curls before serving cake.
D;Serves 12.
T;Italian Wedding Soup 
T;Mama's Italian Wedding Soup
T;Joellen's Italian Wedding Soup
T;Italian Wedding Soup
T;Italian Wedding Soup
T;Italian Wedding Soup
T;Italian Wedding Soup
T;Italian Wedding Soup 
I;1/2 lb Ground beef 
I;1/4 cup Seasoned bread crumbs 
I;1 Egg 
I;1 Tbsp Parsley 
I;Salt and pepper to taste 
I;1 whole chicken cut up 8 pcs 
I;4 cups water 
I;2 cup Spinach leaves cut in pieces 
I;1 small box orzo 
I;1/4 cup Grated Romano cheese 
D;Combine the ground meat, bread crumbs, egg, parsley, salt and
D;pepper in a bowl. Mix well and form into tiny meat balls 3.)
D;Meanwhile add chicken to water, Cover and boil for 5 minutes. 4.) Add
D;the meatballs to the hot broth, bring to a simmer. 5.) Cook for one
D;hour take out chicken and peel from the bone, add orzo cook for 5 min
D;add spinach, put peeled chicken back in, stir in the cheese and serve
D;immediately.
D;Source: http://www.kktv.com/recipes/headlines/546462.html
T;Mama's Italian Wedding Soup
D;Preparation Time: 45 minutes
D;Number of Servings: 10
I;1 pound extra lean ground beef  
I;2 eggs, beaten  
I;1/4 dried bread crumbs  
I;2 Tablespoons grated parmesan cheese  
I;1 teaspoon dried basil  
I;3 Tablespoons minced onion  
I;2 1/2 quarts chicken broth  
I;2 cups spinach- packed, rinsed and  
I;thinly sliced  
I;1 cup seashell pasta  
I;3/4 diced carrots  
D;In a medium bowl, combine the beef, egg, bread
D;crumbs, cheese, basil and onion. Shape mixture into 3/4 inch balls and
D;set aside. In a large stockpot heat chicken broth to boiling; stir in
D;the spinach, pasta, carrot and meatballs. Return to boil; reduce heat
D;to medium. Cook, stirring frequently, at a slow boil for 10
D;minutes or until pasta is al dente, and meatballs are no longer pink
D;inside. Serve hot with Parmesan cheese sprinkled on top.
D; 
D;Source: http://www.recipebookonline.com/asp/viewrecipe.asp?ID=1329
T;Joellen's Italian Wedding Soup
D;The very best version of this classic soup that I have ever had was
D;made by my friend Joellen, a redhead of the I Love Lucy variety, who
D;claims to be Italian. If this soup could be used as evidence, it must
D;be true. She says the secret is in the broth and often spends 2 or 3
D;days getting it just right. When she is satisfied, she moves on to the
D;rest.
T;Italian Wedding Soup 
I;The chicken stock: 
I;2 pounds chicken parts 
I;2 large onions 
I;3 stalks celery, including leaves 
I;3 large carrots 
I;3 cloves of garlic 
I;2 teaspoons salt 
I;4 - 5 peppercorns 
I;3 whole cloves 
I;12 cups water 
D;Quarter the onions. Chop scrubbed celery and carrots into 1 inch
D;chunks. Place chicken pieces, onion, celery, carrot, garlic, salt, and
D;cloves in large soup pot or Dutch oven. Add water. Bring to a boil.
D;Reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 1- 2 hours. Remove chicken and
D;vegetables. Strain stock through cheesecloth to remove solids. Skim
D;fat off the surface.
D;The meatballs: 
D;Combine 1/2 pound lean ground beef, 1 egg (slightly beaten), 4
D;tablespoons bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese, and 1/2
D;teaspoon of dried basil. Shape into 3/4 inch balls. Drop into boiling
D;water and cook until they float to the top. Drain and set aside.
D;The escarole: 
D;In a large pot of boiling water, add 2 heads of
D;escarole which has been cleaned and chopped. Blanch for 3 minutes to
D;remove the bitterness from the greens. Drain. When cooled, squeeze out
D;all extra liquid.
D;Put it all together: Bring stock to a boil; add chopped escarole, 1
D;1/2 cups acini de pepe, and 3 eggs (slightly beaten) combined with 1
D;cup of Parmesan cheese. Stirring
D;continuously until the egg is fully cooked and the pasta is al dente.
D;Add the meatballs, adjust seasoning and heat through. 
D;For those less dedicated to authenticity, canned chicken broth and
D;frozen chopped spinach can be substituted. The acini de pepe floating
D;around gives it the look of the real thing. And looks, as you all
D;know, are half the battle.
D;Source: http://joyofsoup.com/archives/000067.php
T;Italian Wedding Soup
D; Recipe By     : Home Cooking Magazine -Oct. 1998
D; Serving Size  : 8    Preparation Time :0:00
D; Categories    : Italian                          Soups & Stews
I;    1                    egg -- slightly beaten
I;    1      pound         ground beef
I;    1      cup           Italian bread crumbs
I;    2      teaspoons     Worcestershire sauce
I;    1      teaspoon      garlic powder
I;    2      tablespoons   olive oil
I;    5      cups          chicken broth
I;    1      cup           water
I;    1 1/2  cups          pastina or other small pasta
I;    1      package       (10 oz.) frozen chopped spinach -- cooked and
I;drained
D; In large bowl, combine egg, ground beef, bread crumbs, Worcestershire
D;sauce and   garlic powder.  Mix well.  Shape meatballs, using 1 rounded
D;teaspoon meat mixture for each.    In large skillet, heat olive oil over
D;medium-high heat.  Add meatballs.  Cook for 5 to 7 minutes, or to desired
D;doneness, turning frequently to brown on all s  ides.  Drain. Set aside.
D;In large saucepan, bring chicken broth and water to a boil over medium
D;high heat  tsp  Reduce heat to low.  Add meatballs, pastina and spinach.
D;Cover and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.   Serves 8.  
T;Italian Wedding Soup
D;Submitted by Dotty
I;Soup Ingredients:
I;1 10-ounce) package frozen spinach 
I;1 medium onion, chopped 
I;4 stalks celery, chopped 
I;3 medium carrots, chopped 
I;1 clove garlic, minced 
I;1/2 cup olive oil 
I;1/2 tablespoon celery salt 
I;6 cups chicken stock 
I;  
I;Meatball Ingredients:
I;1 pound lean ground beef 
I;1 medium onion, minced 
I;1 tablespoon salt 
I;1 tablespoon pepper 
I;1 tablespoon fresh parsley, chopped 
I;2 cloves garlic, minced 
I;2 large eggs, beaten 
I;1 cup milk 
I;1/2 cup bread crumbs 
I;1 tablespoon oil 
D;Rinse frozen spinach well, let drain until very dry, then chop. 
D;In a large skillet over moderate heat, saute the chopped onion,
D;celery, carrots, and minced clove of garlic in olive oil. Season with
D;celery salt. Place vegetables and chicken stock in a soup kettle and
D;simmer for at least 1 hour.
D;Prepare meatballs by combining the lean ground beef, minced onion,
D;salt, pepper, parsley, 2 minced cloves garlic, eggs, milk, and bread
D;crumbs. Shape into 1-inch meatballs and brown in a skillet containing
D;one tablespoon of olive oil until they are cooked through. Drain
D;meatballs on paper towels as they brown. Add meatballs to the soup and
D;boil gently for 20 minutes longer. Serve warm.
D;Serves 8 to 10.
D;http://www.cooksrecipes.com/soup/italian-wedding-soup-recipe.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
I;1 package frozen chopped spinach
I;3 cans chicken broth
I;2 cups small pasta (pastina, or broken spaghetti)
I;1 lb. lean ground beef
I;Parmesan and Romano cheese (grated)
I;onion powder
I;garlic powder
I;salt
I;pepper
I;2 Tbsp. olive oil
D;First, make little meatballs (sort of like Swedish meatballs).
D;One meatball is approximately 2 tablespoons, but you can make them
D;any size you want. Cook them in the olive oil, garlic powder, and
D;onion powder in a frying pan on medium heat until cooked, then pour
D;off the drippings and turn up the heat and brown them pretty good
D;for flavor. Set aside until later.
D;Put 2 cans of the chicken broth into a large soup pot. Cut the
D;frozen spinach into several smaller chunks (or let it thaw out
D;first). Mix the frozen spinach with the chicken broth until it is
D;all unfrozen and separated. Put the meatballs in with the spinach
D;and broth, and set aside.
D;Put the other can of broth in another pan, add a can of water, and
D;some salt. Heat until boiling, and throw the pasta in. Cook until
D;pasta is tender. Dump this into the big soup pot with the rest of
D;the stuff, and stir over medium heat until simmering.
D;Serve in small soup bowls (like French onion soup) and put PLENTY
D;of grated Parmesan and Romano cheese on top. Salt and pepper to
D;taste. The cheese makes the difference, so don't be stingy. Then
D;eat it. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding01.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup 
I;1 whole chicken, cut up 
I;1/2 lb. ground beef
I;1/4 cup Romano cheese
I;1/2 cup Italian-flavored bread crumbs
I;2 eggs
I;Minced garlic, parsley, oregano, salt and pepper to taste
I;4 to 5 bunches fresh endive
I;3 cans (13 3/4 ounces each) chicken broth 
I;3 or 4 eggs
I;1/2 cup Romano cheese
D;Cover chicken with water in a pot and cook until meat is done.
D;Cool and bone chicken; set aside meat and broth.
D;Prepare meatballs by mixing ground beef, 1/4 cup Romano, bread
D;crumbs, 2 eggs and garlic, parsley, oregano, salt and pepper.
D;Shape into marble-size balls. Brown, drain and set aside.
D;Clean and cut up the endive. Boil in large amount of water until
D;done (it will look limp). Drain.
D;In another pot, bring reserved broth and canned chicken broth to
D;a boil. Mix 3 or 4 eggs and 1/2 cup Romano in a small bowl. Pour
D;into the boiling broth. Add chicken, meatballs and endive. Cook 30
D;minutes more. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding02.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
I;4 lb chicken legs or mixed parts
I;7 qts water
I;12 bouillon cubes or to taste
I;2 cup diced onions
I;4 celery stalks, finely chopped
I;5 carrots, halved then finely sliced on the bias
I;1 head escarole, washed and torn into hunks
I;4 eggs
I;oil
I;1 lb. ground meat or combination beef, pork and veal
I;1/2 to 3/4 cup grated Romano cheese
I;1/2 cup milk
I;1/2 cup bread crumbs
I;1 or 2 eggs
I;pinch of basil and oregano
I;1/4 cup diced onions
I;1 Tbsp. chopped parsley
I;1 clove garlic, mashed and chopped
D;Wash chicken parts and cover with water; bring to boil. Add half
D;bouillon cubes and all vegetables, except escarole. When water
D;boils, reduce to simmer to cook chicken. When chicken is cooked,
D;remove to cool. Debone, then return to soup (skim grease as it
D;floats to surface; also make sure no bones are left in pot). Let
D;simmer a few hours (3 to 4 hours). Mix ground meat, cheese, milk,
D;bread crumbs, eggs, basil, oregano, onions, parsley and garlic.
D;Mix well, then roll into meatballs, 3/4-inch in diameter. Then
D;brown evenly in hot oil. Drain well, then add to soup. Skim grease
D;as it comes to surface. Add remaining bouillon cubes and continue
D;to cook. During last 30 minutes, add escarole and stir. During last
D;10 minutes, whip eggs. Then add hot stock and mix well. Then add
D;a little more hot stock and mix again. Then add to soup and stir.
D;The eggs should resemble little cogs. Serve with grated cheese. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding03.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
I;1 pound ground beef 
I;1/2 pound ground pork 
I;1 egg 
I;Pepper 
I;1/2 teaspoons oregano
I;Parsley
I;Parmesan cheese
I;1/4 cup Italian bread crumbs
I;20 cups water (5 quarts) 
I;20 chicken bouillon cubes 
I;3 packages chopped spinach 
I;Acini de pepe (1/2 - 3/4 box)
I;2 eggs, beaten with Parmesan cheese
D;Combine meats, egg, pepper, oregano, parsley, Parmesan and bread
D;crumbs. Shape into tiny balls. Boil meatballs a few at a time.
D;Meatballs are done when they rise to the top of boiling water.
D;Bring water to a boil. Add bouillon and stir. Add spinach and
D;boil until spinach is thawed. Add meatballs and bring back to boil.
D;Add acini de pepe and cook until tender. Remove from heat. Slowly
D;add egg/cheese mixture, stirring constantly. 
D;Note: Freezes well. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding04.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
I;3 14.5 oz cans fat-free chicken broth
I;13 1/2 oz can leaf spinach, well drained
I;8 ounces lean ground beef
I;1 1/4 cups grated Parmesan cheese
I;1/2 cup seasoned packaged breadcrumbs
I;2 large eggs
I;1/2 cup pastina (tiny pasta)
D;In large, heavy saucepan or Dutch oven, combine chicken broth and
D;spinach. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat. Meanwhile, in
D;medium bowl, combine ground beef, 1 cup Parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs
D;and eggs. Work mixture with your hands or a spoon until well blended.
D;Form into small, roughly shaped meatballs, using a scant tablespoon
D;meat mixture for each. When broth boils, stir in pastina and
D;remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese, then add meatballs and stir
D;until soup returns to a simmer. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer
D;15 minutes, stirring often, until meatballs are cooked through.
D;Servings: 4 main-course servings or 8 first-course servings 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding05.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
I;5 cups chicken broth
I;1 lb extra lean ground beef
I;1 small onion minced
I;5 leaves fresh spinach (or less depending on taste)
I;1/2 cup small pasta (i.e. orzo)
D;With the ground beef, create small meat balls (1/2 inch in diameter).
D;Add to boiling chicken broth, add onions and pasta. Chop spinach
D;into small pieces and add to mixture. Simmer until meet balls are
D;cooked. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding06.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup 
I;8 ounces lean ground beef or mixture of lean ground beef, pork and
I;veal
I;1 small onion, chopped fine (about 1/3 cup)
I;1 large egg
I;2 teaspoons seasoned (packaged) dry bread crumbs
I;2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley
I;1 teaspoon grated Parmesan cheese
I;6 cups chicken broth
I;8 ounces fresh spinach or escarole, washed, drained, stems removed,
I;and
I;leaves cut in chiffonade (4 loosely packed cups) or 1 package (10
I;ounces)
I;frozen chopped, thawed and squeezed dry
I;1 medium size carrot, shredded
I;1/4 cup acini di pepe pasta or any small soup pasta
I;1 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley
I;2 large eggs, slightly beaten
I;Grated Parmesan cheese
D;Mix meatball ingredients and shape into 3/4 inch balls. Bring first
D;five soup ingredients to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat and
D;simmer 5 minutes. Fry meatballs lightly in olive oil in a separate
D;skillet. Drop meatballs into simmering soup and cook uncovered 8-10
D;minutes until meatballs are no longer pink in center. Using a
D;wooden spoon, stir soup while slowly pouring in beaten eggs. Remove
D;from heat, cover and let stand a few minutes until eggs are set.
D;Serve with Parmesan cheese. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding07.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
I;1 head of escarole, washed, steamed and chopped to bite size
I;2 hard boiled eggs, chopped
I;1 1/2 lbs. chicken, cut up
I;Small meatballs, marble size
I;1 large onion
I;celery leaves
I;1/2 cup carrots
I;1/2 cup chopped celery
I;1 cup crushed egg noodles or pastene
D;Place chicken, onion, celery leaves in a pot. Cover with water and
D;bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until chicken is very tender
D;and falls away from the bone. (1- 1 1/2 hours.)
D;Remove chicken, celery leaves and onion. Chop chicken to bite sized
D;pieces. Reserve broth.
D;Put celery and carrots in broth. Cook until tender (4-5 minutes)
D;Add escarole, meatballs, noodles, eggs, and chicken. Bring to a
D;low boil. Simmer until noodles are cooked.
D;Serve hot with crusty bread. Sprinkle parmesan cheese on top. 
D;http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding08.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup 
I;2 medium heads escarole or 1 or 2 bunches spinach, cleaned and chopped
I;8 cups chicken broth 
I;1 pound ground beef
I;4 eggs, divided
I;1 cup dry bread crumbs
I;2 tablespoons dried basil
I;1 teaspoon dried parsley
I;1 1/2 cups grated Parmesan cheese
D;In a large pot of boiling water, add the escarole or spinach and
D;cook until it wilts (this removes the bitter taste from the greens).
D;Remove from heat and strain the greens from the water. When cooled,
D;squeeze out all excess liquid.
D;In a separate pot over medium heat, bring the broth to a boil. In
D;a separate large bowl, combine the ground beef, 1 egg, breadcrumbs,
D;basil, parsley and 1/2 cup Parmesan cheese. Mix well and form into
D;bite-size balls. Drop the balls into the broth. When they rise to
D;the top, they are cooked.
D;Add the escarole to the broth. In a separate bowl, combine the
D;remaining 3 eggs with the remaining 1 cup of cheese. Pour this
D;mixture into the soup, stirring continuously, until the egg is
D;cooked. 
D;Source: http://www.recipecottage.com/soups/italian-wedding09.html
T;Italian Wedding Soup
D;Zuppa maritata 
D;Naples - Campania
D;Preparation - Medium
D;Serves 4 - 6
D;Our version of a traditional recipe.
I;1/2 lb ground beef 
I;1/2 lb ground veal, pork or turkey 
I;1/4 cup bread crumbs (commercial, or grate your own from stale Italian
I;bread)
I;1 egg 
I;1 T parsley, finely chopped 
I;1/2 clove garlic, minced (optional) 
I;1/2 tsp paprika (optional) 
I;1/2 tsp salt and pepper to taste 
I;4 cups chicken broth 
I;2 cups spinach, chopped 
I;1/4 cup grated Pecorino Romano cheese 
D;Combine the ground meat, bread crumbs, egg, parsley, minced garlic and
D;salt and pepper in mixing bowl. Mix well with a fork and form into
D;tiny meat balls (shown are about the size of a golf ball, but
D;traditional meatballs are a bit smaller) with your hands.
D;Place meatballs on a greased baking sheet and bake for about 25
D;minutes at 350F, until brown. (Optionally, you can sauté the meatballs
D;in olive oil until brown and proceed with next paragraph, or bring
D;your chicken stock to a boil, add the meatballs, simmer for about 25
D;minutes, add the spinach, cook until tender, stir in the cheese and serve)
D;About ten minutes before serving, bring the chicken broth to a boil,
D;add the spinach and cook until tender. Add the meatballs and return
D;soup to a simmer. Stir in the Pecorino cheese and serve.
D;Alternate: you can sauté the meatballs in olive oil until brown and
D;proceed with step 3 (above), or bring your chicken stock to a low
D;boil, add the uncooked meatballs, simmer for about 25 minutes, add the
D;spinach, cook until tender, stir in the cheese and serve
D;http://www.e-rcps.com/pasta/rcp/soup/italwed_1.shtml